S No
Title
Indian signatory
Australian signatory
Remarks
1.
Agreement on Social Security
Biren Nanda, High Commissioner
Kevin Andrews, Minister for Social Services
To strengthen the people-to-people contacts and facilitate and regulate the regulations between the two countries with respect to social security benefits and coverage.
It will provide for social security and superannuation benefits for those who have been residents of the other country on basis of equality of benefit, export of benefits and avoidance of double coverage.
It will lead to greater economies and promote the flow of professionals.
2.
Agreement concerning Transfer of Sentenced Persons
Biren Nanda, High Commissioner
Michael Keenan, Minister for Justice
To enhance cooperative efforts in law enforcement and administration of justice and to cooperate in the enforcement of penal sentences.
It will facilitate, regulate and lay down procedures for the transfer of sentenced persons and enable rehabilitation and reintegration of sentenced persons into society.
3.
MOU on Combating Narcotics Trafficking and Developing Police Cooperation
Anil Wadhwa, Secretary (East), Ministry of External Affairs
Michael Keenan, Minister for Justice
To address concerns regarding illicit trafficking and drug abuse.
It places priority on tackling illicit trade, diversion of precursors, asset forfeiture and drug money laundering.
It will promote capacity building and help develop strategies and procedures for operations to disrupt and dismantle transnational narcotic related threats.
4.
MOU on Cooperation in the Field of Arts and Culture
Anil Wadhwa, Secretary (East), Ministry of External Affairs
George Brandis, Attorney-General and Minister for the Arts
To enhance cultural relations between the two countries in pursuance of the Cultural Agreement of 1971.
It will promote cooperation through exchange of information, professional expertise, training and exhibitions in the field of culture.
It will deepen understanding between the people, institutions and art genres and promote sound and sustainable artistic and cultural activities.
5.
MOU in the Field of Tourism
Anil Wadhwa, Secretary (East), Ministry of External Affairs
Andrew Robb, Minister for Trade and Investment
To enhance the bilateral cooperation and strengthen the friendly between the people.
It will encourage cooperation in tourism policy, information exchange, interaction between tourism stakeholders, training and investments in hospitality sector and promote the importance of the tourism sector in economic development and employment generation.
