Over 100 beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, from across the country, today interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at his residence.
During the informal interaction with Shri Narendra Modi, many of the beneficiaries explained how their lives had improved through the use of the Mudra loans sanctioned to them.
Ms. Kiran Kumari, a beneficiary from Bokaro, Jharkhand, who received a loan of Rs. 2 lakh, explained how she started her own toy and gift shop.
Earlier, she and her husband earned their livelihood selling toys as hawkers.
After receiving the loan, she has been able to establish herself as a successful entrepreneur.
Ms. Munirabanu Shabbir Hussain Malek from Surat, received a Mudra Loan of Rs. 1.77 lakh.
She explained how she took LMV driving training and is now earning Rs. 25,000 per month, by driving an auto rickshaw.
Mr. Sijesh P. from Kannur, Kerala, worked abroad for 8 years.
On return to India, he worked as a sales manager in a medical unit.
He enthusiastically explained to the Prime Minister how he was able to set up a unit to produce herbal tooth powder, thanks to a Mudra Loan of Rs. 8.55 lakh.
He even presented some samples to the Prime Minister.
Mr. Salehundum Giridhar Rao from Telangana, shared his entrepreneurship story with the Prime Minister.
He received a loan of Rs. 9.10 lakh, which he used to further his dye casting and moulds enterprise.
Ms. Veena Devi, from Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir works as a weaver.
She received a Mudra loan of Rs. 1 lakh.
She is now one of the leading manufacturers of Pashmina shawls in her area.
Today, she presented one Pashmina shawl to the Prime Minister, during the interaction.
Mr. Rajendra Singh from Dehradun is an ex-Armyman.
He told the Prime Minister about his business of manufacturing and supplying brooms to retailers, which he was able to establish through the Mudra Loan of Rs. 5 lakh.
He has not only been able to successfully set up his business, but has also generated employment for a few other persons.
Mr. T.R. Sajeevan from Chennai received a Mudra loan of Rs. 10 lakh.
He explained how he now does job work for foundries.
Mr. Satish Kumar from Jammu, received a loan of Rs. 5 lakh.
He was earlier unemployed.
Now, he has a business of manufacturing and trading of steel products.
He shared his experiences with the Prime Minister today.
Mr. Viplav Singh, from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarkhand, worked with a pharma firm, but wished to set up his own business.
With the help of a Mudra Loan worth Rs. 5 lakh, he was able to start his own business of trading pesticides and fertilizers, and has now been able to generate employment for several other persons.
He shared his experiences with the Prime Minister today.
Several other beneficiaries also shared their experiences.
The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of the entrepreneurs who have made good use of the Mudra Loans.
He said that 11 crore people have so far benefited from the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.
He said that one of the aims of this scheme is also to increase self-confidence among the people.
He said that so far, the conventional thinking has been that employment is generated either in the public sector or in the private sector.
This scheme, he said, has helped in the development of the “personal sector,” as a means of livelihood and self-employment.
The informal interaction between the Prime Minister and the beneficiaries, lasted for over an hour.
Ministers of State for Finance, Shri Pon.
Radhakrishnan and Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla were present on the occasion.
