Our Mantra should be: ‘Beta Beti, Ek Samaan’
Let us celebrate the birth of the girl child.
We should be equally proud of our daughters.
I urge you to sow five plants when your daughter is born to celebrate the occasion.
PM Narendra Modi to citizens of his adopted village Jayapur.
Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) was launched by the Prime Minister on 22nd January, 2015 at Panipat, Haryana.
BBBP addresses the declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and related issues of women empowerment over a life-cycle continuum.
It is a tri-ministerial effort of Ministries of Women and Child Development, Health & Family Welfare and Human Resource Development.
The key elements of the scheme include Enforcement of PC & PNDT Act, nation-wide awareness and advocacy campaign and multi-sectoral action in select 100 districts (low on CSR) in the first phase.
There is a strong emphasis on mindset change through training, sensitization, awareness raising and community mobilization on ground.
The NDA Government is trying to bring about a transformational shift in the way our society looks at the girl child.
PM Modi in his Mann Ki Baat lauded the Sarpanch from Bibipur in Haryana who started a ‘Selfie With Daughter’ initiative.
PM also urged people to share their selfies with daughters and it soon became a world-wide hit.
People from across India and the world shared their selfies with daughters and this became a proud occasion for all those who have daughters.
Since the launch of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, the multi-sectoral District Action Plans have been operationalized in almost all states.
Capacity-buiding programmes and Trainings have been imparted to Trainers to further strengthen capacities of district level officials and frontline workers.
Nine set of such trainings have been organized covering all States/UTs the Ministry of Women & Child Development from April-October, 2015.
Some Local Initiatives
Under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme, Pithoragarh district has taken various steps towards protecting the girl child and enabling her education.
The District Task Force and Block Task Force have been constituted.
Meetings of these forums have organized & clear road maps have been developed and relating to Child Sex Ratio.
To reach out the community at a large, awareness generation activities have been being carried out for wider dissemination of the Scheme.
Various Rallies have been organized with core participation from various schools, Army schools, Employees of Government Departments, etc
In order to increase awareness about Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, street plays are also being organized in Pithoragarh.
These street plays are not only organized at the villages, but also in markets to generate awareness among a larger audience.
Through story visualization, people are getting sensitized towards the problems of sex-selective abortion.
Issues related to the girl child and the series of the difficulties she faces through her lifespan are very well portrayed through these street plays.
Through a Signature Campaign, Pledge and Oath Ceremony, message of BBBP has reached out to 700 students from PG colleges and several Army Personnel.
Mansa district in Punjab has launched an initiative to inspire its girls to be educated.
Under its ‘Udaan – Sapneya Di Duniya De Rubaru (Udaan- Live your Dream For One Day)’ scheme, the Mansa administration invites proposals from girls belonging to classes VI-XII.
These girls have the opportunity to spend one day with a professional they aspire to be — doctor, police official, engineer, IAS and PPS officers, among others.
The initiative has received great response, and more than 70 students have already got a chance to spend one day with a professional, to see them function in a professional environment, helping them make better decisions about their future career choice.
