Boost to the vulnerable rural families in Jammu & Kashmir
Special Package to Jammu & Kashmir for implementation of DAY-NRLM – Umeed extended
The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of timeline for implementation of the Special Package under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) for Jammu & Kashmir for another period of one year during 2018-19.
The Cabinet also approved allocation of funds to the State under DAY-NRLM on a need basis for implementation of the Special Package without linking it with poverty ratio.
There is no additional financial implication as the approval is to extend the time line to cover two thirds of the vulnerable households in the State within in the originally approved financial outlay of Rs. 755.32 crore.
An amount of Rs.143.604 crore will be required for the period of one year during 2018-19.
Impact:
1. This will help in covering all the vulnerable rural households in the State (estimated at two thirds of the total number of households) within a definite time frame.
2. It will ensure mobilization of households under the auto inclusion category and households with at least one deprivation category listed in the Socio Economic Caste Census – 2011.
3. It will also ensure coverage of all the blocks in Jammu & Kashmir under DAY-NRLM and ensures social inclusion, social development, promotion of livelihoods leading to poverty alleviation in the State.
Background:
Due to unavoidable reasons and disturbed conditions in the State, the Special Package as approved in May 2013 could not be fully implemented.
Now, the State Government has requested Government of India to consider extension of the earlier approved implementation schedule of the Special Package and continued funding of DAY-NRLM in Jammu and Kashmir on a demand driven basis without linking allocation with poverty ratio during this extended period.
Hence the approval by the Cabinet which will give a boost to the vulnerable rural families in Jammu & Kashmir.
