The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) to improve the effectiveness of rural development programmes in India and to facilitate knowledge sharing.
An Inter-Governmental MoU on Joint Technical and South-South Cooperation to provide a framework for collaboration will be signed between Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and FAO to improve the effectiveness of rural development programmes in India and to facilitate knowledge sharing.
The MoU will facilitate South-South cooperation mechanisms around Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM)’s experience through exchange visits and dialogues, and establishment of a good-practice Learning Centre.
It will strengthen the vertical upscaling of the livelihoods of rural populations that are supported by DAY-NRLM, help to develop inclusive and sustainable value chains for key crops and agro-industrial products, employment diversification, skills development, especially for rural youth, strengthening of social protection, risk management mechanisms and enhanced resilience building, especially in arid and disaster risk-prone districts.
The MoU will provide for collaboration on activities of common interest to support an integrated approach to rural poverty reduction through activities aimed to promote the economic empowerment of rural women, access of rural poor to natural resources and their sustainable use and social protection.
The MoU will also provide for exchange of visits and dialogue for knowledge and experience sharing.
Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY -NRLM) is a flagship rural poverty reduction program of Ministry of Rural Development launched nationwide with the objective of social mobilization, financial inclusion and sustainable livelihoods promotion.
DAY – NRLM aims at creating efficient and effective institutional platforms for the rural poor enabling them to increase household income through sustainable livelihood enhancements and improved access to financial services.
One of the major focus areas of DAY – NRLM is promotion of existing livelihood portfolios of the rural poor in farm and non-farm sectors.
Upgradation and sharing of knowledge on agricultural practices for sustainable income is therefore, considered a valuable input for poverty alleviation and higher income generation.
DAY – NRLM recognizes the importance of achieving the post-2015 agenda and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well as other global priorities, that relate to rural poverty reduction, sustainable rural livelihoods, rural employment, social protection, good governance and gender equality.
FAO’s programme for rural poverty reduction supports governments and national stakeholders in overcoming the hurdles laced by the rural poor and by aligning agricultural sector and food security policies with broader rural development objectives.
The MoU will provide a framework for continuing collaboration between MoRD and FAO on activities of common interest to support an integrated approach to rural poverty reduction through activities aimed to promote the economic empowerment of rural women, access of rural poor to natural resources and their sustainable use and social protection.
The MoU provides for exchange of visits and dialogue for knowledge and experience sharing.
