The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for establishment of new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY).
The cost of the project for establishment of the new AIIMS in Gorakhpur shall be Rs. 1011 crore.
The above cost estimate does not include recurring costs (wages & salaries and operation & maintenance expenses).
This recurring expenditure will be met by the respective new AIIMS from their annual budgets through Grant-in-Aid to them from Plan Budget Head of PMSSY of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
The institution shall have a hospital with capacity of 750 beds which will include Emergency/Trauma Beds, AYUSH Beds, Private Beds and ICU Speciality & Super Speciality beds.
In addition, there will be an Administration Block, AYUSH Block, Auditorium, Night Shelter, Hostels and residential facilities.
The establishment of new AIIMS will serve the dual purpose of providing super specialty health care to the population while creating a large pool of doctors and other health workers in this region that can be available for primary and secondary level institutions/facilities being created under National Health Mission (NHM).
This institute will also conduct research on prevalent regional diseases and other health issues and provide for better control and cure of such diseases.
The population of entire region of eastern U.P. which comprises of four Commissionerate of UP (Goarakhpur, Azamgarh, Basti and Devi Patan) comprising 14 districts of the state and also 5 districts of Western Bihar (West-Champaran, East-Champaran, Saran, Siwan, and Gopalganj) will be benefited by this AIIMS will be benefitted by the establishment of new AIIMS.
Background
The setting up of AIIMS under PMSSY aims correcting the regional imbalances in availability of affordable/reliable tertiary level healthcare in the country in general, and to augment facilities for quality medical education in under-served or backward States, in particular.
Under this scheme, AIIMS have been established in Bhubaneshwar, Bhopal, Raipur, Jodhpur, Rishikesh and Patna while work of AIIMS Rae Bareli is in progress.
Also, three AIIMS in Nagpur (Maharashtra), Kalyani(West) and Mangalagiri in Guntur (A.P) have been sanctioned in 2015.
