The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following proposals of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion:
(a) Development of Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre (ECC), Dwarka and allied infrastructure in PPP and non-PPP Mode (including Exhibition & Convention spaces, arena, trunk-infrastructure, Metro/NHAI connectivity, hotels, office and retail spaces etc.) at an estimated cost of Rs. 25,703 crore by year 2025.
(b) Incorporation of a new Government company as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the implementation and development of the project with 100% equity from Government through Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion.
Government of India will provide budgetary support of Rs. 2037.39 crore to the SPV as equity over a period of 3 years to fund trunk infrastructure, a part of Exhibition centre, Foyer, Convention Centre, Metro connectivity, NHAI road connectivity including cost of land to be paid to DDA, water & Sewerage infrastructure, Railway land for Metro Connectivity and expenses towards other Non-PPP components.
(c) Mobilization of Rs.1,381 crore from the market as Government guaranteed loan and utilization of Rs. 4,000 crore by way of monetization of Government-owned land and annual project revenue by the SPV.
The proceeds from land monetization and annual returns accrued by the SPV will be utilized for funding the non-PPP components of the Project.
(d) DMICDC will act as a knowledge partner for the project on payment of an annual fee @1% of the yearly internal accruals, subject to a minimum of Rs. 5 crore and maximum of Rs.10 crore per annum for an initial period of 10 years.
(e) Board of the SPV will be authorized to approve revision in detailed cost estimates, break-up of quantities of project components, phasing of the project, change in scope etc. depending upon the requirement at various stages of project, within the overall approved financial limits.
SPV would also be authorized to raise debt/ mobilize resources through land monetization depending upon market conditions.
Phase-1 of the project comprising trunk infrastructure along with Exhibition cum Convention Centre will be implemented and commissioned by December 2019.
These will be implemented as non-PPP component.
Phase-2 of the project comprising of the remaining Exhibition area will be implemented by 2025.
The components comprising hotels, retail space and offices will be implemented in PPP mode.
It is estimated that the proposed ECC facility, once fully operational, will infuse a demand for more than 100 major international and local exhibition events annually.
The number of persons visiting the exhibition facility annually (paying visitors) is estimated to be more than 10 million in the first phase (2019-20) and 23 million after completion of the second phase (2025).
Similarly, convention based delegate attendance is estimated to cross 1.5 million annually after successful completion of second phase of the project.
Project is estimated to generate over five lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.
The job creation will happen in core ECC facilities as well as in supporting ECC land uses like retail, office and hospitality.
Background:
Conferences and Exhibitions are vital links to connect local manufacturers with global buyers and to serve as a platform for exchange of business ideas.
India lacks an integrated world class facility which can meet the requirements of global exhibition-cum convention operators in terms of space, project facilities, transportation linkages, etc. at a large scale.
Development of Exhibition-cum-Convention (ECC) Centre at Dwarka accompanied with supporting components, once fully operational is expected to bring New Delhi in the league of Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore in the area of exhibition market.
