Boost to infrastructure facilities for judiciary
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved continuation of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for Development of Infrastructure Facilities for Judiciary beyond 12th Five Year Plan i.e. from 01.04.2017 to 31.03.2020 to be implemented in a Mission Mode through National Mission for Justice Delivery and Legal Reforms with an estimated outlay of Rs.3,320 crore.
The Cabinet also approved setting up of an on-line monitoring system with geo-tagging by the Department of Justice enabling data collection on progress, completion of court halls and residential units under construction, including for future projects as well as better asset management and formulation of norms and specification of court halls and residential units to be constructed under Scheme for implementation throughout the country for future.
Benefits from the Scheme:
The Scheme will increase the availability of suitable number of Court Halls and Residential Accommodations for Judges / Judicial Officers of District and Subordinate Courts all over the country including at District, Sub-District, Taluka, Tehsil and Gram Panchayat and Village levels.
This will help in improving the functioning and performance of the Judiciary across the country in reaching out to every citizen.
Financial assistance:
The central assistance is provided to the State Governments / UT Administrations under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for development of Infrastructure Facilities for Judiciary for construction of court halls and residential units for Judicial Officers / Judges of District and Subordinate Courts.
The funds sharing pattern for Centre and State is 60:40 in respect of States other than North Eastern and Himalayan States.
The funds sharing pattern is 90:10 in respect of North Eastern and Himalayan States; and 100% in respect of Union Territories.
This will help for completion of on-going projects for construction of 3,000 court halls and 1,800 residential units for judicial officers of District and Subordinate Courts.
Monitoring of the Scheme
An on-line monitoring system will be set up by the Department of Justice enabling data collection on progress, completion of court halls and residential units under construction as well as better asset management.
Regular meetings of the Monitoring Committee may be organised in various States with State Chief Secretaries and PWD officials to enable speedy and good construction.
It may also be monitored if the funds released by the Centre are released without delay onward to PWD by the State Governments.
Background:
Central Government augments the resources of the States in this regard through the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for development of infrastructure facilities for Judiciary which is being implemented since 1993-94.
The central assistance is provided to the State Governments / UT Administrations under the Scheme for construction of court halls and residential units for Judicial Officers / Judges of District and Subordinate Courts.
