The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for leasing out 1.61 acres of land bearing khasara No.91/15 located at Alipur Delhi, owned by Delhi Milk Scheme to Small Farmers Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) for setting up of KisanMandi.
The lease will be for a period of 30 years w.e.f, 10.09.2014 to 09.09.2044, with the lease rent of Rs.100/- per month with annual increase of 10% per annum from 10.09.2014.
The lease rent will be payable in advance for whole year in the beginning of the calendar year latest by 31st January.
Impact:-
The setting up the KisanMandi by SFAC, which will, provide as an additional, marketing channel/ platform to FPOs and Growers Association for direct sale of fruits and vegetables to whole sale and retail buyers in Delhi/NCR for the benefit of farmers as well as consumers of the country.
Highlights of the KisanMandi:-
Only registered FPOs/Grower Associations (GAs) will be allowed to offer fresh produce for sale on this platform.
Organisationretailers, wholesalers, hotels and catering institutions, Resident Welfare Association (RWAs) and ordinary consumers can buy from this platform, with no agents / middlemen involved.
There will be no commission charged on the transactions in the KisanMandi either from sellers or buyers, FPOs will pay a small service charge for the use of facilities such as godowns, cold stores etc.
KisanMandi will also offer direct supply through retail outlets on a franchises model.
A beginning will be made by offering staple produce such as potato and onion through selected kiosks of the Delhi Milk Scheme.
The KisanMandi will also have provision for online sales and. direct marketing through call centre etc.
Background:-
SFAC is a registered society set up under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 under the administrative control of Department of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India.
Its mandate is to link farmers to investment, technology and markets.
SFAC is mandated by the M/o Agriculture to mobilize farmers into groups, called Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) and link these institutions to the market, for better returns.
SFAC has promoted about 650 FPOs across the country with the membership of over 6.60 lakh farmers up to Dec, 2017.
These bodies are member owner grass root institutions, which provide collective bargaining powers to small and marginal farmers.
SFAC proposes to establish a KisanMandi, asan additional marketing channel/platform to link FPOs and farmers Growers Association to wholesale and retail consumers for direct sale of fruits & vegetables for the benefits of farmers and consumers in Delhi& NCR.
