Boost to Public Transport and Connectivity in Patna
26.94 km stretch of Metro from Danapur to Mithapur corridor
14.45 km stretch of Metro from Patna Junction to New ISBT
Rs.13,365.77 crore metro project to be completed in five years
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Patna Metro Rail Project having two Metro Rail Corridors,namely (i) Danapur to Mithapur (ii) Patna Railway Station of New ISBT at an estimated cost of Rs.13365.77 crore.
Project Details:
The Project will be completed in five years.
DanapurCantt to Mithapur corridor will pass through the heart of city and connect densely populated areas Raza Bazar, Secretariat, High Court, Law University Railway Station.
Patna Jn. to ISBT corridor will connect Gandhi Maidan, PMCH, Patna University, Rajendra Nagar, Mahatma Gandhi Setu, Transport Nagar and ISBT.
The Metro will provide Eco friendly and sustainable Public Transport to residents, commuters, industrial workers, visitors and travelers.
Patna Metro Project Highlights:
The length of Danapur to Mithapur corridor is 16.94 km, which is mostly underground (11.20 km) and partly elevated (5.48 km) and comprises of 11 Stations (3-Elevated and 8-Underground).
The length of Patna Station to New ISBT corridor is 14.45 km, which is mostly elevated (9.9 km) and partly underground (4.55 km) and comprising of 12 stations (9-Elevated and 3-Underground).
The existing population of 26.23 lakh of Patna agglomeration area is expected to be benefitted by Patna Metro Rail Project directly and indirectly.
The approved corridors will be having Multimodal Integration with Railway Stations &ISBT Station and will have feeder network of Bus, Intermediate Public Transport (IPT) and Non Motorised Transport (NMT).
The Project will have non-fare box revenue from rental & advertisement as well asValue Capture Financing (VCF) through mechanism of Transit Oriented Development (TOD) and Transfer of Development Rights (TDK).
The residential areas along thisMetro Rail corridorsshall be immensely benefitted by this project, as the people of these areas will be able to travel on trains from their own neighborhoods to reach different areas of the city conveniently.
