The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the Air Services Agreement (ASA) between India and Georgia.
The Agreement between the two countries is based on latest International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) template keeping in view of developments in Civil Aviation sector and with an objective to improve the air connectivity between the two countries.
Presently there is no Air Services Agreement between these two countries.
ASA is the basic legal framework for any air operation between the two countries.
The agreement will help establish air connectivity between the two countries.
The features of the Air Services Agreement are as follows:
i. Both countries shall be entitled to designate one or more airline.
ii. Now the Indian carriers can operate to any points in Georgia from any points in India.
Whereas the carriers of Georgia can establish direct operation to six points namely New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Goa.
Apart from this through routing flexibility any intermediate and beyond point can also be served by the designated carriers of both sides.
iii. The designated airlines of either country shall have the right to establish offices in the territory of the other country for the promotion and sale of air services.
iv. The designated Airline of each party can enter into cooperative marketing arrangements with the designated carriers of same party, other party and that of a Third party.
In view of this, it will not only facilitate the direct connectivity but also connectivity through 3rd country carriers.
It will provide viable options for the carriers of both countries.
The Air Services Agreement between India and the Georgia has the potential to spur greater trade, investment, tourism and cultural exchange between the two countries bringing it in tune with the developments in the civil aviation sector.
It will provide enabling environment for enhanced and seamless connectivity while providing commercial opportunities to the carriers of both the sides ensuring greater safety and security.
