The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC),USA and Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D), India on Law Enforcement Training.
This has paved the way for enhanced cooperation between the two countries in security related matters under the aegis of the India-US Homeland Security Dialogue.
The MoC will help in improving the standards of training, training materials, quality of trainers etc. which will go a long way in improving the functioning of police forces in the country and realizing the concept of SMART Police.
India and United States share common interest to fight terrorism and transnational crimes in all their forms and manifestations and to prevent the continued growth of terrorist organizations.
India and US also share a common interest in protecting the homeland and vital infrastructures and in preventing disruption of global supply chain by terrorist attacks.
Background:
During the visit of the President of the USA to India in November, 2010, both sides agreed to set up a Homeland Security Dialogue (HSD) mechanism as a sequel to the signing of the India – USA Counter- Terrorism Initiative.
Six Sub-Groups were formed under Homeland Security Dialogue covering the areas of:
1. Global Supply Chain, Transportation, Port, Border and Maritime Security,
2. Megacity Policing and Sharing of Information among Federal state and Local Partners,
3. Illicit Finance, Illegal Smuggling of Cash, Financial Fraud and Counterfeiting;
4. Cyber Information;
5. Capacity Building; and
6. Technology Upgradation.
As part of the Homeland Security Dialogue (HSD) between India and USA, a Sub Group on Capacity Building has been constituted with the objective of coordinating with the US authorities for overall capacity building of law enforcement agencies working in India related to all the six sub groups which are included in the HSD.
Structured cooperation between the key institutions handling capacity building in India and USA is considered to be important.
Accordingly, US side has proposed for a MoC between FLETC in USA and their Indian counterpart which is the BPR&D.
