The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the signing of Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism, Government of the Republic of India and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism.
The main objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding are:
a) Exchanging information and expertise in Legislations in the tourism development, Hotels, resorts and tourist accommodation facilities, Tourism data and statistics, Exhibition events and other tourism activities in States of the Parties, Tourism development, planning and investment; Licensing, operating and marketing tourism facilities, Agricultural Tourism, Desert tourism etc.
b) Exchanging media publications, tourism related films, and encourage exchanging of visits between experts and tourism media representatives in the States of the Parties.
c) Introducing tourism investment opportunities available in the States of the Parties; encourage mutual tourism investment in tourism projects.
d) Encouraging organizing joint tourism events; participate in exhibitions, conferences and seminars held in the States of the Parties thus contributing to tourism development and crystalizing a joint tourism vision.
e) Encouraging public and private education facilities working the tourism education and training field in the States of the Parties.
f) Exchanging innovative experience and technologies in the tourism field, and consultation services.
g) Cooperation and coordinating in international forums and organizations concerned with tourism affairs.
Background:
India and Saudi Arabia have enjoyed a strong diplomatic and long economic relationship.
The two parties now desiring to strengthen and further develop the established relationship have signed a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism, Government of the Republic of India and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism.
Saudi Arabia is one of the potential tourist generating market for India from Middle East.
The signing of Memorandum of Understanding with Saudi Arabia will be instrumental in increasing arrival from this source market.
