The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) titled Joint Declaration of Intent between India and Germany on Cooperation in the field of Civil Aviation.
The Joint Declaration will lead to promotion of safe, effective and efficient development of air transport between India and Germany.
The MoU in the form of Joint Declaration of Intent signifies an important landmark in the civil aviation relations between India and Germany, and has the potential to spur greater trade, investment, tourism, and cultural exchanges between the two countries.
The two countries desired to strengthen and further develop the established relation through signing a Joint Declaration of Intent for promoting and facilitating exchange of knowledge and experience, cooperation in the field of Civil Aviation.
The main objective of this Joint Declaration of Intent is to promote and facilitate mutual cooperation in the following areas:-
(i) Aviation Safety and Air Traffic Management
Sharing of information and best practices related to aviation safely activities and safety oversight including Air Traffic Management through seminars, colloquiums, visits and other ideas as appropriate.
(ii) Heliports and Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS)
Sharing of information and best practices related to heliports and Helicopter Emergency Medical Services.
(iii) Regulations and Policy
Continued collaboration at ICAO on key international issues.
(iv) Corporate and Business Aviation Development
Sharing of information on facilities for business and non-commercial aviation.
(v) Environment
(a) Sharing of experience regarding governmental oversight of aerodromes with special focus on sustainable and environment-friendly aerodrome development and planning.
(b) Collaboration at international level with view to the importance of tackling climate change and therefore of addressing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with aviation, both at domestic and international levels.
(vi) Training and Skills Development
Explore partnerships in technical and non-technical co-operation and training, in particular, in aviation safety oversight.
