The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval for transfer of 40 acres of Airports Authority of India (AAI) land at RR station, Dahisar to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for its metro shed swapping with 40 acres of State Government land at Gorai, Mumbai.
The land transaction will enable MMRDA to complete the Metro rail project in Mumbai.
Modalities:
While considering the proposal, the Cabinet has approved following modalities:
i. MMRDA will pay the difference in cost of land of 40 acres, as per the stamp duty ready reckoner rate based on 2016-17 arrived at Rs. 472.70 crore or as per the ready reckoner rate at the time of final handing over of land, whichever is higher.
ii. MMRDA will hand over the 40 acres of land at Gorai after leveling, grading and demarcating the boundary in all respects.
MMRDA will also hand over all the land documents, revenue maps of Gorai land duly mutated in the Records of Rights in the name of AAI.
iii. MMRDA will identify / demarcate 40 acres of land retaining 24 acres of land for AAI, with clear access / approach from the nearby city road.
iv. AAl will also handover at least 2000 sqm. of land at Dahisar in advance on temporary basis.
Employment Generation Potential:
The present proposal will generate employment for skilled, semi-skilled labourers along with job opportunities for technical experts, also there will be creation of jobs in manufacturing industries involved in the metro construction work.
After operationalisation of Metro Car Shed, there will be generation/ creation of direct/indirect employment.
Background:
Maharashtra Government is implementing Mumbai Metro Rail Master Plan (146.50 Km) in phases to augment the overall public transport capacity of Mumbai.
A special purpose vehicle namely, Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) under the MMRDA has been erected for implementing the Mumbai Metro project.
MMRC has planned to construct a car shed on the Dahisar (E) to Andheri (E) metro corridor.
A portion of the identified land for car shed i.e. 17.47 Ha (approx.
44 acres) is owned by AAI.
AAI owns a total land area of approx.
64 acres at Dahisar where Remote Receiving Station is located.
Some part of the land is encroached.
