The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between Germany and India regarding cooperation in the sector of alternative medicine.
The signing of the JDl will enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the areas of traditional/alternative medicine.
Initiation of collaborative research, training and scientific capacity building in the field of alternative medicine under the JDI between the two countries would contribute to the enhanced employment opportunities in the AYUSH sector.
There are no additional financial implications involved.
The financial resources necessary to conduct research, training courses, conferences / meetings will be met from the existing allocated budget and existing plan schemes of Ministry of AYUSH.
Background:
India is blessed with well-developed systems of traditional medicine which hold tremendous potential in the global health scenario.
Germany has considerable interest in Traditional Systems of Medicine.
The Ministry of AYUSH as a part of its mandate to propagate Indian systems of Medicine globally has taken effective steps by entering into MoU with China, Malaysia, Trinidad & Tobago Hungary, Bangladesh, Nepal, Mauritius, Mongolia and Myanmar.
The Ministry has taken many initiatives for promotion of Ayurveda in Germany with the recommendation and cooperation of the Indian Embassy in Berlin.
One of the major initiatives is the collaborative research Project between the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) and Charite University, Berlin on Osteoarthritis of the knee.
The results of the trial are encouraging and the clinical trial demonstrates significant improvement in patients.
The study has been completed successfully and is under publication.
A delegation led by Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, Hon’ble Minister of State, (Independent Charge).
Ministry of AYUSH had visited Germany from 15-19 October 2016 to participate in the 2nd European World Ayurveda Congress (EWAC) and have interactions with the authorities in Germany.
The Congress was supported by the Ministry of AYUSH.
During the visit a bilateral meeting was held between Hon’ble MoS(IC), AYUSH with the Parliamentary State Secretary Ms. Ingrid Fischbach during which both sides had unanimously agreed to begin the process of drafting and negotiating a JDl in the field of AYUSH and Natural medicine.
It is expected that the JDI would give a boost to India-Germany ties and enhance cooperation between the two countries.
