The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Memorandum of Cooperation between India and Finland on Environmental Cooperation.
The Memorandum of Cooperation will enable establishment and promotion of closer and long-term cooperation between the two countries in the field of environment protection and management of natural resources on the basis of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefits, taking into account the applicable laws and legal provisions in each country.
The Memorandum of Cooperation is expected to bring in the latest technologies and best practices suited for bringing about better environment protection, better conservation, and better management of climate change and wildlife protection/conservation.
The areas of cooperation under this Memorandum of Cooperation shall include:
i) Air and water pollution prevention and purification, remediation of contaminated soils;
ii) Waste management including hazardous wastes, and waste-to-energy technologies;
iii) Promotion of circular economy, low-carbon solutions and sustainable management of natural resources including forests.;
iv) Climate change;
v) Environmental and Forest monitoring and data management;
vi) Conservation of Marine and Coastal Resources;
vii) Integrated water management of Oceanic/Sea Islands; and
viii) Any other areas jointly decided upon.
Background:
The concerns of rising environmental issues are not limited to any country but pose a serious challenge to the entire Globe.
India is one of the emerging economies in the world with vast coastline and rich bio-diversity.
Finland’s main environmental issues are air and water pollution, and the preservation of its wildlife.
Finland’s principal environmental agency is the Ministry of the Environment, established in 1983.
Industrial pollutants from within the country and surrounding countries affect the purity of both the nation’s air and water supplies.
It also faces challenges like water pollution and increased demand for natural resources.
Both the Countries face many environmental challenges like waste water management, conservation of threatened species, control of air and water pollution and increased demand for natural resources.
In view of the urgency to check: the growing environmental concerns both the countries have decided to join hands to establish and promote closer and long term cooperation in the field of environment protection and management of natural resources and bring in the latest technologies and best practices suited towards better environmental protection.
