The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of an Agreement between India and Uzbekistan for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors.
The Agreement between India and Uzbekistan provides for cooperation in the following fields:
1. Exchange of information regarding laws, standards and product samples of mutual interest;
2. Establishment of joint agriculture clusters in Uzbekistan;
3. Exchange of experience in the field of crop production and theirdiversification;
4. Exchange of experience in the field of seed production based on modern technology; exchange of information concerning certification of seed in accordance with the legislation of the States of the Parties; exchange ofsamples of seeds on beneficial terms.
5. Application of technology for enhanced water use efficiency in agricultureand allied sectors, including irrigation;
6. Conduct of joint scientific research on genetics, breeding, biotechnology, plant protection, soil productivity conservation, mechanization, waterresources, and mutual application of scientific results;
7. Development and extension of cooperation in the field of plant quarantine;
8. Exchange of experience in the field of animal husbandry, including animal health, poultry, genomics, setting up of quarantine facilities;
9. Exchange of information between research institutes in the fields ofagriculture and food industry on scientific and practical activities (fairs, exhibitions, conferences, symposia)
10. Cooperation in agricultural and food trade;
11. Explore setting up of food processing joint ventures;
12. Any other form of cooperation as mutually agreed between the Parties.
The Agreement provides for constitution of a Joint working Group comprising of representatives from both countries, the task of which would be to prepare plans of cooperation, provide solutions to the problems arising during the implementation of this Agreement and to monitor the implementation of tasks determined by the Parties.
The meetings of the Working Group shall take place at least every two years, alternately in India and in Uzbekistan.
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signing and shall remain in force for a period of five (5) years, being automatically extended for a subsequent periods of five (5) years.
This Agreement shall be terminated after six (6) months from the date of receipt of notification of either Party of its intention to terminate.
