The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the constitution of a High Level Steering Committee for periodically reviewing and refining the National Indicator Framework (NIF) for monitoring of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with associated targets.
The High Level Steering Committee will be chaired by Chief Statistician of India and Secretary, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI), with the Secretaries of data source Ministries and NITI Aayog as members and Secretaries of other related Ministries as special invitees, with function of reviewing of National Indicator Framework including refinement of the indicators from time to time.
Targets:
1. Measures to mainstream SDGs into on-going national policies, programmes and strategic action plans to address the developmental challenges.
2. Statistical indicators of NIF will be the backbone of monitoring of SDGs at the national and state level and will scientifically measure the outcomes of the policies to achieve the targets under different SDGs.
3. Based on statistical indicator, the MoSPI will bring out national reports on implementation of SDGs.
The Report will facilitate assessment of progress, identify challenges and give recommendations for follow up at the national level.
4. High Level Steering Committee will review the National Indicator Framework on regular basis for its improvement.
5. Data source Ministries / Departments will be responsible for providing regular information to MoSPI on these indicators at required intervals and disaggregation for national and sub-national reporting of SDGs.
6. Advanced IT tools will be used for close and effective monitoring.
Major impact:
1. SDGs integrate economic, social and environmental dimensions of development.
It intends eradicating poverty and promoting prosperity in a changing world with basic motto of ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikash’.
2. SDGs with 17 Goals and 169 Targets intend for promotion of sustainable, inclusive and equitable economic growth, creating greater opportunities for all, reducing inequalities, raising basic standards of living, fostering equitable social development and inclusion, promoting integrated and sustainable management of natural resources and ecosystems.
3. NIF will help in outcome-based monitoring & reporting on progress on SDGs at National level.
There is no direct financial implication on implementation of the National Indicator Framework.
However, the respective Ministries will need to re-align and strengthen their data systems to facilitate monitoring of the SDG indicators.
SDGs are expected to bring change in the lives of people and the monitoring of progress of implementation of SDGs will benefit the entire nation.
Background:
At the Millennium Summit held in 2000 at the UN Headquarters in New York, eight development goals known as the ‘Millennium Development Goals’ (MDGs) were adopted, which formed the blueprint for countries to pursue their national development strategies from 2000 to 2015.
The MDGs comprised eight Goals and addressed various development issues.
The MDGs targets were unevenly achieved across the countries and a need was felt to start fresh discussions to assess the usefulness of the MDGs and to explore possible successor to guide development cooperation in the world beyond 2015.
The UN General Assembly in its 70thSession considered and adopted the Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) for the next 15 years.
The 17 SDGs came into force with effect from 1stJanuary, 2016.Though not legally binding, the SDGs have become de facto international obligations and have potential to reorient domestic spending priorities of the countries during the next fifteen years.
Countries are expected to take ownership and establish a national framework for achieving these Goals.
Implementation and success will rely on countries’ own sustainable development policies, plans and programmes.
Countries would be responsible for follow-up and review at the national level, with regard to the progress made in implementing the Goals and targets.
Actions at the national level to monitor progress under SDGs will require quality, accessible and timely data.
