The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has today given its approval to grant Special Remission to Prisoners as part of Commemoration of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
As part of commemoration of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the following categories of prisoners will be considered for special remission and released in three phases.
In Phase-l, the prisoners will be released on 2nd October, 2018 (Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi), in Phase-ll prisoners will be released on 10th April, 2019 (Anniversary of Champaran Satyagrah) and in Phase-Ill, prisoners will be released on 2nd October 2019 (Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi):-
(a) Women convicts of 55 years of age and above, who have completed 50% of their actual sentence period.
(b) Transgender convicts of 55 years of age and above, who have completed 50% of their actual sentence period.
(c) Male convicts of 60 years of age and above, who have completed 50% of their actual sentence period.
(d) Physically challenged/disabled convicts with 70% disability and more who have completed 50% of their actual sentence period.
(e) Terminally ill convicts.
(f) Convicted prisoners who have completed two-third (66%) of their actual sentence period.
Special remission will not be given to prisoners who have been convicted for an offence for which the sentence is sentence of death or where death sentence has been commuted to life imprisonment; Cases of convicts involved in serious and heinous crimes like Dowry death, Rape, Human Trafficking and convicted under POTA, UAPA, TADA, FICN, POCSO Act, Money Laundering, FEMA, NDPS, Prevention of Corruption Act, etc.
Ministry of Home Affairs will issue advice to all States and UTs asking them to process the cases of eligible prisoners.
State Governments and UT Administrations will be advised to constitute a Committee to examine the cases.
State Governments will place the recommendations of the Committee before Governor for consideration and approval under Article 161 of the Constitution.
After the approval, the prisoners will be released on 2nd October 2018, 10f/l April, 2019 and 2nd October, 2019.
Background:
The 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is a significant occasion and giving special remission to prisoners on this important occasion is considered desirable and befitting the commemoration and would be a homage to the Father of Nation and the humanitarian values Mahatma Gandhi stood for.
