The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Continuation of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), and for incurring expenditure up to Rs. 1000 crore till 2019-20 by Atal Innovation Mission for expanding Atal Tinkering Labs to 10,000 schools in view of their huge success at school level.
Details
AIM has multiple programs to encourage and support innovation in the country.
State of the art Atal Tinkering Labs (ATLs) are being established in thousands of schools, world class Atal Incubation Centres (AIC) and Atal Community Innovation Centers (ACIC) are being established for universities and industry,
Promotion of product development in areas of national relevance and social importance is being supported through Atal New India Challenges (ANICs).
Financial implications:
Each ATL receives a grant in aid of Rs. 12 lakhs in the first year, and upto 2 lakhs per year for subsequent 4 years, for maintenance of the ATL equipment and operational expenses.
Each selected AIC would be receiving grant in aid upto Rs 10 crore over 3-5 years in tranches per year, based on review and evidence of planned milestones reached.
Innovators will receive commercialization and technology deployment grants upto Rs. 1 crore under the ANICs.
Impact:
The Mission has undertaken many bold and forward-looking initiatives such as Alal Tinkering Labs (ATL) and Atal Incubation Centres (AIC), which have received great traction;
Many Ministries/Departments of Government of India have initiated innovation related activities with the help and technical support of AIM.
Under the ATL program, more than 10,000 schools are expected to establish these labs by 2020.
More than 100 Atal Incubation Centres (AICs) are likely to established around the country, supporting at least 50-60 startups each over the first five years.
More than 100 innovators/startups are expected to receive some support for productizing their innovations.
Other programs being supported through Ministries will have even more beneficiaries.
Each incubator is expected to foster 50-60 technology driven innovative Startups every four years.
The 100+ Incubators set up would thus foster 5000-6000 innovative Startups and this will multiply with new incubators being set up.
The potential for employment generation from these innovations driven Startups is quite high.
Implementation Strategy and targets:
AIM selects each beneficiary through open, competitive, online applications, and disburses grants directly.
Furthermore, AIM leverages its experts and networks around the country to build capacity in ATLs, AICs, etc. connecting various kinds of populations.
Additionally, corporate and international partners are connected to AIM beneficiaries, to ensure flow of information and technology between academia, innovation, and the start-up ecosystem as well as provide mentoring support to ensure success of AIM’s initiatives.
Till date, 5441 Atal Tinkering Labs have been selected across the country, out of which 2171 ATLs from 623 districts have already received the first tranche of grant-in-aid for establishment of the labs in their respective schools.
101 Atal Incubation Centres have been selected nationwide, out of which 31 have received the first tranche of grants.
Twenty-four Atal New India Challenges (ANIC) have been launched and more than 800 applications have been received.
2-3 winners per ANIC would be selected and receive a grant of upto Rs 1.0 crore in 3 tranches based on review and evidence of planned milestones achieved.
AIM’s Mentor of Change Programme is mandated to ensure the success of the ATLs.
Through this programme, well-qualified mentors from different professional backgrounds are selected to provide pro-bono mentoring to ATL students over a range of skills.
Mentors also collaborate with the School administrators to ensure the ATLs operate in the manner, mandated by AIM.
As on date, more than 2,500 mentors are actively mentoring students in over 1,300 ATL schools.
Background:
AlM’s objectives are to create and promote an ecosystem of innovation and entrepreneurship across the country at school, university, research institutions, MSME and industry levels.
The Mission has been set up under NITI Aayog, in accordance with the Hon’ble Finance Minister’s declaration in the 2015 Budget Speech.
