The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for restructuring of Agricultural Scientists’Recruitment Board (ASRB).
Details:
The ASRB will now be a 4 Member body instead of 3 Members.
It will have a Chairperson and 3 Members.
ASRB would be for a period of three years or till attainment of 65 years of age, whichever is earlier.
For the purpose of autonomy, secrecy, accountability and efficient functioning ASRB shall be delinked from ICAR and to be attached with Deptt. of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE) under Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare.
The budget head for ASRB may also be delinked from ICAR and be created under DARE, and the ASRB may have its own cadre of administrative staff in the secretariat and have independent administrative control.
Impact:
The four Member body comprising of one Chairperson and three Members would help in expediting the work and functioning of ASRB.
It would support in expediting therecruitment process which would be beneficial for the agrarian community andagriculture at large.
Moreover, it will ensure more transparency and efficiency in recruitment of meritorious scientists to various scientific positions in lCAR, the premier agency for agricultural research and education in the country.
Background:
In November 1973, the Cabinet approved inter alia setting up of Agricultural Scientists’Recruitment Board with a whole-time Chairman, to function as an independent recruitment agency in recruitment to various scientific positions in Agricultural Research Service and Research Management Positions of ICAR/DARE.
In view of the significant increase in work load of ASRB a proposal was initiated for restructuring of the Board, and the Cabinet approved the proposal in October 1986 by increasing the membership from one to three of ASRB.
Since the last restructuring of ASRB in 1986, the work load of ASRB have substantially increased and significant changes have occurred in the field of agricultural science, and hence, there was a need to enlarge the composition of the board and to expand the zone of expertise to choose the Chairman and Members of the Board.
