The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of the Collaborative Agreement with French National Research Agency (ANR), France for supporting the Belmont Forum Secretariat from January, 2015 to December, 2017 at a total estimated expenditure of Euro 40,000.
The Cabinet also approved continued financial support to Belmont Forum Secretariat beyond 2017.
The Belmont Forum, created in 2009, is a high level group of the world’s major and emerging funders of global environmental change research and international science councils.
It provides an opportunity to identify study and deliver international environmental research priorities, for the society, in an accelerated way through trans­national research collaboration between natural and social scientists and alignment of international resources
India is a member of Belmont Forum, besides Australia, Brazil, Canada, European Commission, France, Germany, Japan, Netherland, South Africa, UK and USA etc.
Ministry of Earth Science (MoES), represents India in the Belmont Forum since 2012.
In order to coordinate the activities of the Belmont, a Secretariat is hosted by one of the Belmont forum member on rotational basis.
ANR, France is hosting the Secretariat from January, 2015 to December, 2017.
Expenditure for hosting the Secretariat will be borne by Belmont Forum member countries in kind or cash contribution.
Impact:
The Agreement will help to maintain a certain degree of continuity in the operations of the Forum and also help in smooth coordination of the activities of Belmont Forum.
As India is already participating in 4 Collaborative Research Actions (CRAs) and Secretariat will be coordinating the activities of Belmont Forum, Indian scientific community will ultimately benefit from this agreement.
Background:
Since the inception of Belmont Forum in 2009, its operations were being handled by a part-time secretariat associated with the respective Chairs of the Belmont Forum.
As the Co-chairs are rotational, the Secretariat also rotates and some time co-chairs are from different Continents with different time zone.
In order to maintain a certain degree of continuity in the operations of the Forum, establishment of a Full-time Secretariat was agreed upon by Belmont Forum members, on rotational basis.
ANR, France has agreed to host the Secretariat from January, 2015 to December, 2017.
