The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Framework Agreement between India and Indonesia on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes.
The Framework Agreement was signed and exchanged t Jakarta on May 30, 2018.
Point-wise details:
• This Framework Agreement shall enable the following potential interest areas of cooperation such as, space science, exploration of outer space, use of space technology, remote sensing of the earth; operation and maintenance of the integrated BIAK TTC station, hosting of Indian ground station, hosting of IRIMS station, in kind support for launching LAPAN made satellites,, cross utilisation of ground stations etc.
• This Framework Agreement would lead to concluding Implementing Arrangements for specific activities.
This would also lead to setting up a Joint Working Group, drawing members from DOS/ISRO, and Indonesian National Institute of Aeronautics and Space (LAPAN), for the purpose of achieving the goals of this agreement.
Major Impact:
The signing of the Framework Agreement will strengthen the cooperation between India and Indonesia This agreement will help in establishing ISRO’s TTC station and IRIMS station at Indonesia
Background:
India and Indonesia pursue space cooperation for more than two decades and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has established ground stations at Biak, Indonesia to provide Telemetry Tracking and Command (TTC) support for ISRO’s launch vehicle and satellite missions.
This cooperation currently pursued under agency level (ISRO- Indonesian National Institute of Aeronautics and Space -LAPAN) MoUs signed in 1997 and 2002.
As per the 1997 MoU, the title of the equipment was to be handed over to LAPAN after 05 years, retaining the right of operation, maintenance, and utilisation.
Considering the above, enhancing the cooperation to government level, ISRO and LAPAN have negotiated a draft Framework Agreement between India and Indonesia on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes and arrived at mutually agreed version during the meeting between India and Indonesia held at Jakarta during April 23-26, 2018.
On obtaining necessary approvals of Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Prime Minister as Minister-in-Charge, this Framework Agreement was signed and exchanged during the visit of Hon’ble Prime Minister of India to Indonesia on May 30, 2018.
