Boost to Metro Rail connectivity in Indore
The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the implementation of Indore Metro Rail Project comprising Ring Line of length 31.55 Km from Bengali Square – Vijay Nagar – Bhawarsala – Airport – Patasia – Bengali Square which will connect major public nodes and city cluster areas of Indore.
Details: 1.
The length of the Ring Line is 31.55 km.
2. The Ring Line will be from Bengali Square – Vijay Nagar -Bhawarsala – Airport – Palasia – Bengali Square.
3. Numbers of Stations on the Ring Line are 30.
4. The project will provide continuous availability of affordable, reliable, safe, secure and seamless transport system in the urban agglomeration of the city, which will reduce the accidents, pollution, travel time, energy consumption, anti-social incidents as well as regulate urban expansion and land use for sustainable development.
5. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. Rs.7500.80 crore and the project will be completed in four years.
Benefits: The population of 30 lakh of Indore will be benefited by the Metro Rail Project directly or indirectly.
The corridors will have Multimodal Integration with Railway Station & BRTS Stations and feeder network of Bus, Intermediate Public Transport (IPT) and Non Motorised Transport (NMT).
The Project will have non-fare box revenue form rental& advertisement as well as Value Capture Financing (VCF) through mechanism of Transit Oriented Development (TOD) and Transfer of Development Rights (TDR).
The residential areas along this Metro Rail corridor shall be immensely benefited by this project, as the people of these areas will be able to travel on trains from their own neighborhoods to reach different areas of the city conveniently.
The Ring line will connect densely populated areas of the city with the new developing areas along with Railway Station, Airport and ABD under Smart City project.
The Metro will provide ecofriendly and sustainable Public Transport to residents, commuters, office workers, students, visitors and travelers.
Progress: A SPV namely Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Co Ltd.
(MPMRCL) has been constituted for implementation of the Project.
The financing of Indore Metro Rail Project will be partly from Central Government and State Government of Madhya Pradesh on equal equity basis and partly as loan from Asian Development Bank (ADB) and New Development Bank (NDB).
M/s DB Engineering & Consulting GmbH in consortium with M/s Louis Berger SAS and M/s Geodata Engineering S.p.A has been appointed as General Consultant (GC) for Indore Metro Rail Project.
The tenders for first civil work package have been invited and work will start soon.
