The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Netherlands on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes.
The MoU was signed on May 11 & 22, 2017 at Bangalore and The Hague respectively.
Benefits:
This MoU shall enable the following areas of cooperation such as, space science, technology and applications including remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication and satellite based navigation; Space science and planetary exploration; use of spacecraft and space systems and ground system; and application of space technology.
Modalities:
The MoU would lead to set up a Joint Working Group, drawing members from Department of Space/ Indian Space Research Organisation (DOS/ISRO), and the Netherlands Space Office (NSO), which will further work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.
It will provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication; satellite navigation; space science and exploration of outer space.
The MoU would lead to develop a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity.
Thus all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.
Background:
DOS/ISRO Centres have long association with ITC (International Institute for Geo-Information Science and Earth Observation, University of Twente) Netherlands on capacity building; and with the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI) for carrying out calibration/ validation experiments on earth observation.
Antrix Corporation, the Commercial arm of Department of Space (DOS) launched a satellite belonging to the Netherlands (DELFI-C3) in April 2008.
Officials of ISRO and the Netherlands Space Office (NSO) discussed on the modalities of building space cooperation between two countries.
Accordingly, both sides arrived at mutually agreed version of MoU for cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes.
