Boost to healthcare infrastructure
In a major boost to the expansion of healthcare infrastructure in the country, the Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) beyond 12thFive Year Plan to 2019-20.
The financial outlay for this purpose is Rs 14,832 crore.
Under this scheme, new AIIMS are established and Government medical colleges are upgraded.
Objectives:
The PMSSY, a Central Sector Scheme, aims at correcting the imbalances in the availability of affordable tertiary healthcare facilities in different parts of the country in general, and augmenting facilities for quality medical education in the under-served States in particular.
Impact:
Setting up of new AIIMS would not only transform health education and training but also address the shortfall of health care professionals in the region.
Construction of new AIIMS is fully funded by the Central Government.
The Operations & Maintenance expenses on new AIIMS are also fully borne by the Central Government.
Upgradation programme broadly envisages improving health infrastructure through construction of Super Specialty Blocks/Trauma Centers etc. and procurement of medical equipment for existing as well as new facilities on Central and State share basis.
Employment Generation:
Setting up new AIIMS in various states will lead to employment generation for nearly 3000 people in various faculty & non-faculty posts in each of the AIIMS.
Further, indirect employment generation will take place due to facilities & services like shopping centre, canteens, etc. coming in the vicinity of new AIIMS.
The upgradation programme is carried out in selected Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) by agencies appointed by the Government of India under the direct supervision of the Central Government.
Post-Graduate seats and additional faculty posts as per norms will be created and filled up in these GMCs by the respective State/UT Governments.
The construction activity involved for creation of the physical infrastructure for the various new AIIMS and Government Medical Colleges’ upgradation projects being undertaken under the scheme is also expected to generate substantial employment in the construction phase as well.
Background:
The PMSSY was announced in 2003 with objectives of correcting regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/ reliable tertiary healthcare services and also to augment facilities for quality medical education in the country.
PMSSY has two components –
Setting up of AIIMS-like institutions; and
Up-gradation of existing State Government Medical College (GMCs).
Projects under PMSSY:
Various projects taken up under different Phases of PMSSY are as:
Phase and year of announcement in Budget
AHMS like Institutions
