The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and Certified Professional Accountants Afghanistan (CPA Afghanistan).
The MoU will establish mutual co-operation framework in the areas of Capacity Building of “Afghanistan Accountancy Board (AAB)”, strengthening the IT Capacity and Quality Assurance in Afghanistan through facilitating Knowledge Transfer; Students and Members Exchange Programs; Conduct of Seminars, Conferences and Joint Activities mutually beneficial to both the parties.
Targets:
1. Students and members exchange programs from their respective jurisdictions so as to update them on the emerging developments in the areas of accounting profession either in the form of study tours or as may be mutually decided by both the Institutions;
2. Providing updates on the development of the accountancy profession in India, and promote international good professional practices;
3. Strengthening the quality assurance setup in Afghanistan through facilitating knowledge transfer to help implement regime of necessary quality controls and periodic reviews in Afghanistan.
Major impact:
India and Afghanistan share a very strong partnership based on historical and cultural links.
In the recent past, the partnership between the two countries has touched new heights when India’s Afghanistan policy shifted to a more confident and multi-dimensional approach by opening Investment in Afghanistan’s nascent democracy and economy; strengthening Kabul’s defence capability and promoting regional connectivity and integration.
Afghanistan will help India and ICAI to facilitate indirect employment generation for Indian CAs through recognition and acceptability amongst Afghanistan employers.
It is also believed that the relationship developed between the two countries over the past few years is strategic in nature and is of mutual benefit.
Background:
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is a statutory body established by an Act of Parliament of India, ‘The Chartered Accountants Act, 1949’, to regulate the profession of Chartered Accountancy in India.
CPA Afghanistan is an independent regulator of accountancy profession in Afghanistan, which operates under the supervision of Ministry of Finance, Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
