The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the following two instruments, namely, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC), with Russia on 5th October, 2018:
1. MoU with the Ministry of Transport of the Russian federation for the development of cooperation in transport education for the development of cooperation in transport education.
2. MoC with the Joint Stock Company “Russian Railways” (RZD) on technical cooperation in the field of railways.
The MoUs/ MoCs provide a platform for Indian Railways to interact and share the latest developments and knowledge in the railway sector.
The MoUs/ MoCs facilitate exchange of technical experts, reports and technical documents, training and seminars/ workshops focusing on specific technology areas and other interactions for knowledge sharing.
The MoU will envisage cooperation in the priority areas for the development of transport education.
This would enable preparation of specific proposals in this area including their implementation within the framework of the Intergovernmental Russian-Indian Commission on Trade-Economic, Scientific-Technical and Cultural cooperation.
The MoC will enable technical cooperation in the following areas:-
1. Implementation of the project for upgrading the Nagpur- Secunderabad section to raise passenger trains speed up to 200 kmph (Semi High Speed) with possible extension of the section including other directions of Indian Railway (IR) network;
2. Implementation of a Single Traffic Control Center to manage mixed traffic at the regional level, divisional railway and/ or at the upper network level uniting all the IR’s zonal railways;
3. Customization, organization of joint manufacture and implementation of a competitive signaling and interlocking system;
4. Supply and localization of turnout switches for Semi High Speed and above;
5. Training and advanced qualification improvement of Indian railway employees with the involvement of Russian railway-related higher education establishments;
6. Best practices in Freight Cargo operations; and
7. Joint development of multi modal terminals in India.
Background:
Ministry of Railways have signed MoUs/ MoCs for technical cooperation in the rail sector with various foreign Governments and National Railways.
The identified areas of cooperation include high speed rail, speed raising of existing routes, development of world class stations, heavy haul operations and modernization of rail infrastructure etc.
The cooperation is achieved through exchange of information on developments in areas of railway technology & operations, knowledge sharing, technical visits, training & seminars and workshops in areas of mutual interest.
