Boost to Health Infrastructure
In a major boost to health infrastructure the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of the National Health Mission – with effect from 1st April 2017 to 31st March 2020 with a budgetary support of Rs. 85,217 crore as Central Share over this period.
The Cabinet has also approved continuation of the Prime Minister’s Development Package for Jammu & Kashmir 2015 – “Stepping up of support under creation of Infrastructure in District Hospitals, Sub-district Hospitals and Primary Health Centers over 5 years” – with effect from 1st April 2017 to 31st March 2020 with a budgetary support of Rs. 625.20 crores as total centrally-funded scheme.
Salient Features:
1. NHM will be the principle vehicle for the UHC (Universal Health Coverage)
2. The goals/targets aligned with National Health Policy, 2017 and SDG-3.
3. NHM has helped the country achieve the MDGs and will be the principal vehicle to achieve the SDG 3 targets including the target for UHC.
4. NHM will continue to strengthen the public health systems, particularly in high priority districts that include aspirational districts.
5. Shift from selective to comprehensive primary health care that includes care for common non-communicable diseases, geriatric health care, palliative care and rehabilitative care services etc. through strengthening of the SHCs/PHCs as Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs).
6. The HWCs would provide preventive, promotive, curative and rehabilitative services, including NCD screening and management and are expected to be linked to CHCs and the DHs through a two-way referral and follow up system to reduce fragmentation and improve continuity of care.
Package of twelve services including free universal screening for common NCDs.
7. Posting of a Mid-Level health provider at the level of the sub-center who is trained in primary health care and public health related competencies.
8. Emphasis on wellness by integration of AYUSH, and a focus on health promotion and prevention particularly for chronic diseases.
9. Ambitious targets have been set that includes key health indicators and others to spur performance.
10. Outcome oriented with increased funds earmarked for incentivizing better performance on key outcomes and health sector reforms.
11. Horizontal integration of all vertical disease programmes to ensure integrated approach to health and wellness.
12. Specially crafted and differentia! strategies and interventions to achieve set goals.
13. Special focus on reducing Out Of Pocket Expenditure (OOPE) with intensification of Initiatives such as NHM Free Drugs and Diagnostics Services Initiatives, Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis Programme – Reduction on OOPE incorporated as a separate target.
14. Effective harnessing of available platforms for inter sectoral convergent action on health.
15. Team based incentives to foster spirit of cooperation and encouragement between frontline workers.
16. Sharpened focus on quality through Quality certification of public health facilities, Kayakalp, LaQshya.
Utilisation of public health facilities is a specific target.
17. Proposed to expand basket of vaccines to all the states.
18. Will integrate with the proposed National Health Protection Mission under Ayushman Bharat.
Impact:
It will result in / facilitate the:
1. Achievement of targets set for the NHM in the continuation period.
2. Improvement in key health indicators like Neo-natal Mortality Rate (NMR), Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), Under-Five Mortality Rate (U5MR), Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) and Total Fertility Rate (TFR).
3. Reduction in incidence of communicable diseases.
4. Reduction in Out Of Pocket Expenditure (OOPE) on health care.
5. Improvement in coverage and utilization of Routine Immunization services and also those for non-communicable diseases.
