The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Italy for training and education in the fields of Labour and Employment.
Benefits:
The MoU will facilitate expansion of the training and education activities to promote decent work in the world of work, through:
conducting joint training programmes on training methodologies and techniques; developing new training modules for different social partners; organizing customized training programmers in different themes on labour and employment; undertaking evaluation of training methodologies; exchanging of good practices in training programmes, particularly in the context of labour administration; assisting each other in the delivery and facilitation of the training modules and organizing study visits; and exchanging of trainers for sharing of knowledge and information.
Major Impact:
The major impact of the MoU would be up-gradation of technical capacities of both the institutions in responding to the challenges emanating from transformations in the world of work.
It will enhance the technical capabilities of developing and organising international training programmes and the evolution of V.V.Giri National Labour Institute (VVGNLI) as a leading training institution in the Asia-Pacific region.
The MoU will expand its outreach to wide range of social partners from the entire Asia Pacific Region.
Background:
The V.V Giri National Labour Institute (VVGNLI), NOIDA an autonomous body under the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India and the International Training Centre of the International Labour Organisation (ITC-ILO), Turin signed anMoU in 2012 and have collaborated on several activities with mutual sharing of knowledge and experience.
The MoUaim to formalize the collaboration between the institutions for continuing the professional collaboration.
International Training Centre (ITC) of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) was established in 1964 in Turin.
It has since evolved as the most important focal point for imparting training on different dimensions on labour at the international level.
ITC has a vast reservoir of international expertise on employment, labour, human resource development, and capacity building.
One of the major objectives of ITC is to forge partnership with premier institutions engaged in training activities in the field of labour and employment.
