The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Agreement between India and Algeria on Cooperation in the field of Space Sciences, Technologies and Applications.
The Agreement was signed at Bengaluru on 19th September 2018.
Salient features:
This Agreement shall enable pursuing the following potential interest areas of cooperation such as, space science, technology and applications including remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication and satellite based navigation; Space science and planetary exploration; gse of spacecraft and space systems and ground system; and application of space technology.
The Agreement would lead to set up a Joint Working Group, drawing members from DOS/ISRQ, and the Algerian Space Agency (ASAL), which will further work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this Agreement.
Impact:
Signing of the Agreement will strengthen the cooperation between India and Algeria, and provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth, satellite navigation, space science and exploration of outer space.
The Agreement would lead to development of joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity.
Thus all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.
Background:
India and Algeria have been pursuing ‘commercial’ interactions in the field of space, Antrix Corporation Limited has been interacting with Algerian officials towards establishment of ground station, and launch of satellites (3 micro-satellites and one nano-satellite of Algeria were launched by PSLV during 2010-2016).
Algeria expressed interest to pursue space cooperation with Indta through diplomatic channels.
In December 2014, MEA requested tSRO / DOS to consider Algeria’s proposal for entering into an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for space cooperation and forwarded the draft agreement, provided by Algeria.
The draft IGA has been reviewed by ISRO and Algerian Space Agency (ASAL) and comments were exchanged through email.
After a few iterations, both sides have arrived at a workable version of the agency-level space cooperation Agreement.
