Boost to Metro connectivity
In a major boost to public transport infrastructure in NOIDA, the Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved extension of Delhi Metro corridor from Noida City Centre to Sector-62, Noida Uttar Pradesh covering a length of 6.675 k.m. at the total completion cost of Rs.1,967 crores.
Gol liability will be Rs. 340.60 crore on account of Grant and Subordinate Debt.
Details:
1. Approval for Extension of Delhi Metro corridor from Noida City Centre to Sector-62, Noida, Uttar Pradesh covering a length of 6.675 k.m.
2. Total completion cost of the project is Rs.1,967 crore.
3. Project will be implemented by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRC), the existing Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of the Government of India and Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi.
4. Project will be covered under the legal framework of Central Metro Acts, Metro Railways (Construction of Works) Act, 1978 and the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002, as amended from time to time.
Major Impact:
The extension of Delhi Metro corridor from Noida City Centre to Noida Sector 62 is the extension to Dwarka-Noida City Centre line of Delhi Metro system which will result into people being assured about their mobility and thus more people will like to move to this satellite town of Delhi, thus decongesting Delhi.
As a result, more residential and commercial complexes will develop in this region.
With metro rail in place, there will be less vehicular traffic on roads leading to less congestion, less time and cost of journey, less consumption of fossil fuel and less environmental pollution.
The population of Noida and people of surrounding areas will be greatly benefitted by the extended line.
At the project site, approximately 800 staff including Engineers and other staff have been engaged.
Further, DMRC has started the procedure for recruitment of around 200 employees for Operation & Maintenance of this corridor.
About 81% progress of civil work and 55% of overall financial progress of the project have been achieved.
Background:
The Noida city, located in Gautam Buddha Nagar District of Uttar Pradesh State, was created under the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development Act.
It possess all modern amenities and is considered to be one of the most modern suburbs of Delhi in the National Capital Region (NCR).
The population of Noida as per 2011 Census of India is about 6.42 lakhs.
Due to lush green and open area in the city, more and more people from Delhi and surrounding area are preferring NOIDA as their settling place.
The trend of urbanization of Noida is upward.
Number of Industrial and Institutional units is also being established in this city.
Noida mainly has road linkages with Delhi and the adjoining areas of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana State.
People come for work to Noida from other places and vice versa.
These factors will lead to increment of traffic demand and need for an efficient pollution-free mass rapid transport system.
Noida is connected by Metro rail and trains are running upto Noida City Centre (Sector 32 Noida).
It is proposed to extend the Metro Corridor from Noida City Centre to Noida Sector 62 by a length of 6.675 Km with six stations.
Noida does not have railway station and the nearest railway station is Hazarat Nizamuddin, New Delhi which is at a distance of about 15 km.
The nearest airport Delhi is at about 35 km from NOIDA.
The population is expected to grow exponentially in Noida region in the coming years.
