The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of an Agreement between Ministry of Rural Development and Centre on Integrated Rural Development for Asia and the Pacific (CIRDAP) for establishment of CIRDAP Centre at National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRD&PR), Hyderabad.
CIRDAP Centre in NIRD&PR premises would give NIRD&PR an advantage of having first-hand knowledge of networking with organizations specialized in rural development programmes which in turn would help in building a repository of institutional knowledge for NIRD&PR.
This Centre will also help NIRD&PR to enhance its status in the region through linkages with other Ministries/Institutes in the CIRDAP Member Countries (CMCs).
The faculty of the NIRD&PR and the Ministry officials would benefit from exchange visits to the best practices in the CMCs.
The scope of work of the Centre is to focus on the implementation of integrated rural development, particularly poverty alleviation programmes within CMC member countries.
Background
The CIRDAP is a regional Inter – Governmental and autonomous institution which came into existence in 1979 at the initiative of the countries of Asia Pacific region and the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations (UN) with support from several other UN bodies and donors.
India is one of the key founder members of this Organisation.
Its Headquarters is located at Dhaka.
Bangladesh, The objective of CIRDAP is to promote regional cooperation and act as a serving institution for its member countries for promotion of integrated rural development through research action, training, information dissemination etc.
CIRDAP has one sub – regional office in Jakarta, Indonesia.
This sub – regional office of CIRDAP in south-east Asia (SOCSEA) was established in Jakarta, Indonesia in 1997.
The objective was to assist and expand CIRDAP membership and its resources, to conduct training research and pilot projects relevant to South East Asian region.
There are 46 countries in Asia Pacific Region, therefore CIRDAP has great potential for expansion for which they would be assisted by CIRDAP Centres.
