The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Agriculture Export Policy, 2018.
The Cabinet has also approved the proposal for establishment of Monitoring Framework at Centre with Commerce as the nodal Department with representation from various line Ministries/Departments and Agencies and representatives of concerned State Governments, to oversee the implementation of Agriculture Export Policy.
The Government has come out with a policy to double farmers’ income by 2022.
Exports of agricultural products would play a pivotal role in achieving this goal.
In order to provide an impetus to agricultural exports, the Government has come out with a comprehensive “Agriculture Export Policy” aimed at doubling the agricultural exports and integrating Indian farmers and agricultural products with the global value chains.
The Agriculture Export Policy has the following vision:
“Harness export potential of Indian agriculture, through suitable policy instruments, to make India global power in agriculture and raise farmers’ income.”
Objectives:
Objectives of the Agriculture Export Policy are as under:
• To double agricultural exports from present ~US$ 30+ Billion to ~US$ 60+ Billion by 2022 and reach US$ 100 Billion in the next few years thereafter, with a stable trade policy regime. • To diversify our export basket, destinations and boost high value and value added agricultural exports including focus on perishables. • To promote novel, indigenous, organic, ethnic, traditional and non-traditional Agri products exports. • To provide an institutional mechanism for pursuing market access, tackling barriers and deal with sanitary and phyto-sanitary issues. • To strive to double India’s share in world agri exports by integrating with global value chain at the earliest. • Enable farmers to get benefit of export opportunities in overseas market. • Elements of Agriculture Export Policy:
The recommendations in the Agriculture Export Policy have been organised in two categories – Strategic and Operational – as detailed below:
Strategic
Policy measures
Infrastructure and logistics support
Holistic approach to boost exports
Greater involvement of State Governments in agri exports
Focus on Clusters
Promoting value-added exports
Marketing and promotion of “Brand India
Operational
Attract private investments into production and processing
Establishment of strong quality regimen
Research & Development
Miscellaneous
