The Union Cabinet has expressed profound sorrow at the sad demise of former President of India, Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam.
In a resolution passed at a special Cabinet Meeting this morning, it said, “in his passing away the country has lost a visionary scientist, a true nationalist and a great son”.
The Cabinet met under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and extended its heart-felt condolences to the bereaved family on behalf of the Government and the entire Nation.
The former President breathed his last at Bethany Hospital, Shillong, Meghalaya on 27th July, 2015.
The following is the text of the Resolution:-
“Born on 15th October, 1931 at Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, Dr. Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam, specialized in Aeronautical Engineering from Madras Institute of Technology.
Dr. Kalam made significant contribution in developing India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle and made India an exclusive member of Space Club.
Popularly known as the “Missile Man of India’, Dr. Kalam was responsible for the development and operationalisation of AGNI and PRITHVI Missiles.
He gave thrust to self-reliance in defence systems by introducing Light Combat Aircraft.
Dr. Kalam was the Scientific Adviser to Defence Minister and Secretary, Department of Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) during 1992-99.
During this period, strategic missile systems were developed and the Pokhran-II nuclear tests were conducted.
Dr. Kalam had served as the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India, from 1999 to 2001 and was responsible for evolving policies, strategies and missions for many development applications and piloted India Millennium Mission 2020.
In his literary pursuit, Dr. Kalam’s books – “Wings of Fire”, “India 2020 -A Vision for the New Millennium”, “My journey” and “Ignited Minds -Unleashing the power within India” became household names in India and abroad.
Dr. Kalam was passionate about transforming society through technology, in particular by inspiring the youth of India to harness science and technology for human welfare.
Dr. Kalam was the recipient of many national and international awards including honorary doctorates from 48 Universities from India and abroad.
He received the country’s highest civilian Award “Bharat Ratna” in the year 1997.
Eventually, from a very humble beginning, he rose to the highest office of the Country and served as the 11th President of India from 2002 to 2007.
During his tenure, he was affectionately known as the People’s President.”
