The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Agreement for collaborative activities to be signed in the area of Traditional Medicine between Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India and the World Health Organization, Geneva.
The long-term collaboration with WHO would help in improving International acceptability and branding of Ayush systems, facilitate awareness generation regarding AYUSH systems of Medicine by means of education, skill development, workshops, publications and exchange programs between AYUSH and WHO for capacity building, facilitate advocacy and dissemination of information on AYUSH systems amongst the Member States; collaboration with third Parties for creating synergies in implementation of WHO Traditional Medicine Strategy 2014-2023 particularly in the context of AYUSH systems.
The expenditure for carrying out collaborative activities will be met from the allocated budget under the existing plan schemes of Ministry of AYUSH.
The activities will start subsequent to the signing of agreements by the two parties as per terms of reference mutually decided.
As a first step in the long-term collaboration, India would assign to WHO activities for development of the following WHO technical documents/publications which will help in better international acceptability of Indian Systems:
i. Benchmarks for training in Yoga;
ii. Benchmarks for practice in Ayurveda;
iii. Benchmarks for practice in Unani Medicine; and
iv. Benchmarks for practice in Panchakarma
Under the long-term collaboration, AYUSH and WHO would subsequently take up other mutually agreed activities and initiatives that could encompass multilateral collaboration for promotion of Traditional and Complementary Medicine/Systems (T&CM) including development of the WHO publication on the Basic terminologies for T&CM establishment of a database for global T & CM practitioners; establishment of a network of international regulatory cooperation for T&CM practice.
The agreement between WHO and AYUSH is expected to benefit the practitioners of AYUSH systems.
Background;-
Ministry of AYUSH having the mandate to promote, propagate and globalize the recognized Traditional and Complementary Systems of Medicine (T&CM) including Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and Homeopathy, proposes to collaborate and cooperate with the World Health Organization.
Within the United Nations framework, World Health Organization is the directing and coordinating authority for health.
It provides leadership on global health matters, shaping the health research agenda, setting norms and standards, articulating evidence-based policy options, providing technical support to countries and monitoring and assessing health trends.
During the presentation of Ministry of AYUSH before the Hon’ble PM on 3rd July 2014, Hon’ble PM desired that the Ministry needs to seize the opportunities for taking a lead in the world at a time when holistic health care has gained currency.
India should strive to compete with China, when it comes to export of herbal medicine.
It was emphasized that roadmap be prepared to establish India’s credentials in holistic health-care, including preparation of authoritative and credible literature.
Given the strategic importance of collaboration between India and WHO for enhancing global positioning and acceptability of Traditional Systems of Medicine recognized in India (including Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha, Yoga & Naturopathy, Sowa-Rigpa and Homeopathy), Ministry of AYUSH and WHO should foster a long-term relationship.
