The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for constitution of Development and Welfare Board for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-nomadic Communities (DNCs).
Background:
The NDA Government is committed to reach the most deprived citizens of this country.
Amongst the most disadvantage communities in the country are the Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities (DNCs).
These communities are hard to reach, less visible, and therefore frequently left out.
While most DNTs are spread across the Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Classes (OBC) categories, some DNTs are not covered in any of the SC.
ST or OBC categories.
It has, therefore, approved the setting up of a Committee under the Chairpersonship of Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog which will complete the process of identification of the Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities (DNCs) that have not yet been formally classified.
The Government in July 2014 had constituted National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes (NCDNT) for a period of three years to prepare a State-wise list of castes belonging to Denotified and Nomadic Tribes and to suggest appropriate measures in respect of Denotified and Nomadic Tribes that may be undertaken by the Central Government or the State Government.
The Commission started its work on 09.01.2015 submitted its report on 8th January, 20IS.
The Commission recommended for the setting of up a Permanent Commission for these communities.
Since most of the DNTs are covered in SC, ST or OBC, constitution of a Permanent Commission will not be very effective in implementing development programmes, rather it will look at grievance redressal and will therefore be in conflict with mandate of existing commissions for SCs (National Commission for Scheduled Castes)., STs (National Commission for Scheduled Tribes) and OBCs (National Commission for Backward Classes).
The Government has therefore decided to set up a Development and Welfare Board under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 under the aegis of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for the purpose of implementing development and welfare programmes for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-nomadic Communities.
The State-wise list of communities prepared by the Commission is not complete in the sense that with respect to some communities the Commission has stated in its report that this require further validation.
