The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for cooperation in Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy between Ministry of AYUSH of the Government of Republic of India and the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine of the Government of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The signing of the proposed MoU will enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the areas of traditional medicine and homoeopathy.
This will be of immense importance to both countries considering their shared cultural heritage.
There are no additional financial implications involved.
The financial resources necessary to conduct research, training courses, conferences / meetings will be met from the existing allocated budget and existing plan schemes of Ministry of AYUSH.
The activities between the two sides will start immediately after the signing of the MoU by the two countries.
The initiatives taken between the two countries will be as per the terms of reference of the MoU signed and will be a continuing process till the MoU remains in operation.
Background:
India is blessed with well-developed systems of traditional medicine including medicinal plants, which hold tremendous potential in the global health scenario.
Sri Lanka also has a long history of traditional medicine.
Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, Yoga & Naturopathy and Homoeopathy are the important traditional health care systems existing in Sri Lanka.
Both countries share a common culture with respect to Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani Systems of Medicine.
Moreover, there are a large number of medicinal plants, particularly those found in tropical region which are common to the two countries given similar geo-climatic factors.
India and Sri Lanka share several cultural, historical, linguistic and literary similarities.
The shared cultural and civilizational heritage of the two countries and the extensive people to people interaction of their citizens provide the foundation to build a multi-faceted partnership and harmonious bilateral relations between the two countries.
The Ministry of AYUSH, as a part of its mandate to propagate Indian systems of Medicine globally has taken effective steps by entering into MoUs with 11 countries.
They are the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine (SATCM), People’s Republic of China; the Government of Malaysia; the Ministry of Health of the Government of the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago; Ministry of Human Resources, Government of Hungary; Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh; Ministry of Health and Population, Government of Nepal; Ministry of ; Health and Quality of Life, Government of Mauritius; Ministry of Health and Sports, Government of Mongolia; Ministry of Health and Medical Industry, Government of Turkmenistan, Ministry of Health & Sports, Government of Myanmar and Joint Declaration of Intent with the Federal Ministry of Health of the Federal Republic of Germany for Cooperation in the field Traditional Medicine.
