Cabinet approves the facilities being extended to persons residing in India on Long Term Visa
The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following facilities being extended to persons from Minority communities of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians staying on Long Term Visa (LTV) in India.
The move is aimed at easing out the difficulties being faced by them and includes the following:-
· Opening of bank account. · Permission for purchase of property for self occupation and suitable accommodation for carrying out self – employment. · Permission to take self employment. · Issue of driving licence, PAN card and Aadhar number. · Allowing free movement within the State /UT where they are staying. · Transfer of LTV papers from one State to other. · Waiver of penalty on non-extension of short term Visa /LTV on time. · Permission to apply for LTV from the place of present residence when the applicants have moved to the place without permission.
In order to facilitate such persons in acquisition of citizenship by amending Citizenship Rules 2009, the provisions will help in the following ways:-
· The Collector / DM would be empowered to authorize an officer not below the rank of Sub Divisional Magistrate for administering the oath of allegiance to the applicant.
· The powers would be delegated to the Collectors of the following 16 Districts in 7 States for a period of two years for registration as citizens of India.
S. No.
States
Districts
1
Chhattisgarh
Raipur
2
Gujarat
Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Kutch
3
Madhya Pradesh
Bhopal and Indore
4
Maharashtra
Nagpur, Mumbai, Pune and Thane
5
Delhi
West Delhi and South Delhi
6
Rajasthan
Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Jaipur
7
Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
· The registration fees for the citizenship of India would be reduced to Rs 100 from the existing range of Rs 3000 – Rs 15000.
Background:
Government has taken a number of steps during the last 2 years to facilitate the stay of persons belonging to minority communities of these countries.
However, persons belonging to minority communities in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians staying in India on Long Term Visa (LTV) continue to face difficulties with regard to several aspects of living.
The Cabinet approval will help ease out the difficulties faced by them.
