The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for an MoU between India and the the Electoral Commission of Namibia (ECN) and with Electoral Tribunal of Panama (ETP) on cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration.
Salient features:
This MoU contains standard articles/clauses which broadly express promotion of cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration including promotion of exchange of knowledge and experience in the field of organizational and technical development of electoral process; support in exchanging information, institutional strengthening and capacity building, training of personnel, holding regular consultations etc.
Impact:
The MOU would promote bilateral cooperation, aimed at building technical assistance/ capacity support for the Electoral Commission of Namibia (ECN) and with Electoral Tribunal of Panama (ETP).
It envisages cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration and providing a leg-up to it in conducting elections in their respective countries.
This would also result in bolstering India’s international relations.
Background:
The Election Commission (EC) has been participating in promoting cooperation in the field ofelection matters and electoral processes across the world with certain foreign countries and agenciesby adopting the mode of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the concerned parties.
TheElection Commission is a constitutional body which conducts the largest electoral exercise in the world.
It isthe responsibility of the EC to organise free and fair election in the country of about85 crore voters with diverse socio-political and economic backgrounds.
The success of democracy in Indiahas attracted the attention of almost every political system around the world.
In its pursuit of excellence, the Election Commission has been receiving various proposalsfrom foreign electoral bodies for developing bilateral relations in the field of election and matters connected therewith.
The Election Commission has forwarded proposals to the Ministry of Law andJustice, Legislative Department relating to signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by it with
the Electoral Commission of Namibia (ECN) and with Electoral Tribunal of Panama(ETP) oncooperation in the field of electoral management and administration.
