Thirty Operational Flights of PSLV
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) Continuation Programme (Phase 6) and funding of thirty PSLV operational flights under the Programme.
The Programme will also meet the launch requirement of satellites for Earth observation, Navigation and Space Sciences.
This will also ensure the continuity of production in Indian industry.
The total fund requirement is Rs. 6131.00 Crores and includes the cost of thirty PSLV vehicles, essential facility augmentation, Programme Management and Launch Campaign.
Major Impact:
The operationalisation of PSLV has made the country self-reliant in the launching capability of satellites for earth observation, disaster management, navigation and space sciences.
The PSLV Continuation programme will sustain this capability and self-reliance in the launching of similar satellites for national requirements.
The PSLV Continuation Programme – Phase 6 will meet the demand for the launch of satellites at a frequency up to eight launches per year, with maximal participation by the Indian industry.
All the operational flights would be completed during the period 2019-2024.
The Programme will also meet the launch requirement of satellites for Earth observation, Navigation and Space Sciences.
This will also ensure the continuity of production in Indian industry.
PSLV Continuation Programme was initially sanctioned in 2008, and four phases have been completed and the fifth phase is expected to be completed by Q2 of 2019-20.
The Phase 6 approval will cater to the launch of satellite missions during the period Q3 of 2019-20 to Q1 of 2023-24.
Background:
PSLV has emerged as a versatile launch vehicle to carry out Sun-Synchronous Polar Orbit (SSPO), Geo-synchronous Transfer Orbit (GTO) and low inclination Low Earth Orbit (LEO) missions.
With the recent successful launch of PSLV-C41 on 12th April, 2018, PSLV has completed three developmental and forty three operational flights and the last forty one flights have been successful.
PSLV has established itself as a workhorse vehicle for national satellites with a production capacity that would enable responding fast to commercial launch opportunities also.
