The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today granted ex-post facto approval for establishment of NIT, Andhra Pradesh which has been registered as a Society under the Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration Act, 2001 with effect from 20th August 2015.
The Cabinet also approved introduction of a Bill namely the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2016 for inclusion of the NIT, Andhra Pradesh in its First Schedule.
The post- facto approval of the Cabinet for establishment of NIT, Andhra Pradesh as a society under the Societies Registration Act, 2001 would give a legal entity to NIT, Andhra Pradesh.
The proposed amendments to the NITSER Act, 2007 will ensure a high levels of public accountability and increased participation of the. stakeholders in the administration and academic activities of the Institute.
This Institute is being funded by the Government of India.
It is being run and managed by their respective Society registered under the Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration Act, 2001 till such time this Institute is brought under the National Institutes of Technology Science Education and Research Act (NITSER) 2007.
The accounts will be audited by the C & AG of India and will be laid in both the Houses of the Parliament.
Background:
NIT, Andhra Pradesh has been set up to cater to the needs of State of Andhra Pradesh which did not have NITs.
NIT, Andhra Pradesh will specifically be benefitted the State of Andhra Pradesh and the whole country in general.
NIT, Andhra Pradesh will be covered under the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act, 2007 to declare it an Institution of National Importance, which will ultimately help in addressing the aspirations of people in the main stream of technical education.
NIT, Andhra Pradesh was established at temporary campus of West Godavari District: of Andhra Pradesh.
The State Government of Andhra Pradesh has also provided a land for NIT-Andhra Pradesh at West Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh.
As per policy of Government, 50% of the seats in NITs are earmarked for the eligible domicile students of States / tits where the NITs are situated.
NIT, Andhra Pradesh will ensure that the students of State of Andhra Pradesh will get adequate opportunities to pursue research at undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral levels, in an inter-disciplinary knowledge regime and research environment.
As per Schedule 13 (Education) of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014 according to which the Government of India shall take steps to establish ‘Institutions of National Importance’ in the 12th and 13th Plan periods in the successor State of Andhra Pradesh.
Accordingly, the Ministry of HRD decided for setting up of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh through a temporary campus as an Institution registered under the Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration Act, 2001 with a view to bring the NIT, Andhra Pradesh under the ambit of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (NITSER), Act, 2007 through an amendment in the existing Act and declaring NIT, Warangal as its mentor Institute for the first 2-3 years or till such time NIT, Andhra Pradesh is well established at its permanent site.
The permanent site of NIT, Andhra Pradesh has already been finalized at Air-Field lands of Tadepalligudem Mandal in West Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh.
