The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved:
(i) the Establishment of Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) at Amlaha, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh with Satellite Hubs in West Bengal (for pulses) and Rajasthan (for Natural Resource Management) by ICARDA in the second phase; by International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA);
(ii) Signing of lease deed with State Government of Madhya Pradesh for the land provided by them (70.99 hectares, 175.42 acre) at Amlaha Farm, Sehore on land rent of Rs. 1 per acre per year for 30 years on lease and to further lease it to ICARDA to establish the FLRP at Madhya Pradesh;
(iii) ‘In principle’ approval of the Cabinet for conferring on the Food Legume Research Platform of ICARDA an international status as contemplated in Clause 3 of the United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947.
(iv) Authorizing the Department of Agricultural Research (DARE) on behalf of Government of India in all matters regarding establishment of the Platform.
(v) Authorizing the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out technical modifications in the Supplementary Agreement signed between ICAR and ICARDA relating to establishment of FLRP, if required.
The establishment of FLRP in India will enable India to harness the best of international science in meeting the emerging food security challenges.
India would be able to rapidly and effectively absorb the research output achieved in the country by FLRP.
A major international R&D institution will make India an even bigger center for agricultural research in the world and this in turn, will attract further research & development investment in the country.
This is a research set up by an international organization.
ICARDA has a good track record of innovation, as in climate resilient technologies including suitable food legume varieties for dry-land production systems.
ICARDA will carry out research through a multi-disciplinary team of scientists for enhancing productivity of crops range-land and livestock.
This platform will contribute significantly towards reducing poverty, improving food security, improving nutrition and health, and sustaining the natural resource base.
The research output would benefit farmers of all regions, whether big, small or marginal; and as technologies developed would be eligible for use by all farmers, the project is equitable and inclusive.
