The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for continuance of the 8 existing schemes of the Ministry of Home Affairs up to March 2020 for relief and rehabilitation of migrants and repatriates under the Umbrella scheme “Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrants and Repatriates”.
Financial Implication:
The financial implication for this purpose is Rs. 3183 crore for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20.
The year-wise phasing of the scheme will be- Rs. 911 crore in 2017-18, Rs.1372 crore in 2018-19 and Rs. 900 crore in 2019-2020.
Benefits:
The schemes will provide relief and rehabilitation assistance to the refugees, displaced persons, civilian victims of terrorist/communal/LWE violence and cross border firing and mine/IED blasts on Indian Territory and riot victims of various incidents etc.
Details:
The 8 schemes approved for continuance are already in operation, and the benefits under each will be extended to intended beneficiaries in accordance with the approved criterion.
The schemes are as under:
1. Central Assistance for one-time settlement of displaced families from Pak Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) and Chhamb settled in the State of Jammu & Kashmir.
2. Rehabilitation Package and up-gradation of infrastructure of the Bangladeshi Enclaves and Cooch Behar District after transfer of enclaves between India and Bangladesh under Land Boundary Agreement.
3. Relief assistance to Sri Lankan refugees staying in camps in Tamil Nadu and Odisha.
4. Grant-in-Aid to Central Tibetan Relief Committee (CTRC) for five years for administrative and social welfare expenses of Tibetan settlements.
5. Grant-in-Aid to Government of Tripura for maintenance of Brus lodged in relief camps of Tripura.
6. Rehabilitation of Bru/Reang families from Tripura to Mizoram.
7. Grant of enhanced relief of Rs. 5.00 lakh per deceased person, who died during 1984 Anti-Sikh Riots.
8. Central Scheme for Assistance to Civilian Victims/Family of Victims of Terrorist/Communal/LWE Violence and Cross Border Firing and Mine/IED blasts on Indian Territory’.
Background:
To enable the migrants and repatriates, who have suffered on account of displacement, to earn a reasonable income and to facilitate their inclusion in mainstream economic activities, the Government, at different points of time, started 8 schemes.
These schemes provide assistance for – relief and rehabilitation of displaced families of PoJK and Chhamb; Relief assistance to Sri Lankan refugees, Relief assistance to Brus lodged in relief camps in Tripura; Rehabilitation of BRU/Reang families from Tripura to Mizoram; enhanced relief to 1984 Anti-Sikh Riot Victims; Relief to Civilian victims/family of victims of terrorists/Communal/LWE violence and Cross Border firing and Mine/IED blasts on Indian Territory and Repatriation of Indian Prisoners from abroad; Grant-in-aid to Central Tibetan Relief Committee (CTRC).
The Government is also providing Grant-in-Aid to Government of West Bengal for infrastructure development in 51 erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves in India situated in Cooch Behar District for resettlement of 911 returnees from erstwhile Indian enclaves in Bangladesh.
