The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for Memorandum of Understanding between India and Finland on cooperation in the field of peaceful uses of outer space.
The MoU has already been signed in 10thJanuary, 2019 at New Delhi.
Impact:
The signed MoU will provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication; satellite navigation; space science and exploration of outer space.
Cooperation with the Government of Finland would lead to develop a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity.
Details:
The Memorandum of Understanding shall enable the following potential interest areas of cooperation such as,
Remote sensing of the earth
Satellite communication and satellite based navigation
Space science and planetary exploration
Development, testing and operation of space objects and ground system
Launching of Finnish Space objects by Indian launch vehicles
Processing and use of space data
Developing innovative applications and solutions based on space technologies and use of artificial intelligence
Cooperation around emerging New Space opportunities and data ecosystems and sustainable used of outer space.
Under this MoU the Participants or upon their authority, the implementing agencies, may set up project teams if necessary, to manage specific cooperative projects taken up under implementing arrangements.
Implementation Strategy and Targets:
The Participants will each nominate a coordinator for the purpose of coordinating cooperative activities under this MoU.
In order to facilitate the implementation of this MoU, the Participants could meet on mutual decision alternately in India or in Finland or through videoconference.
The Participants or, upon their authority, the implementing agencies, may set up project teams if necessary, to manage specific cooperative projects taken up under implementing arrangements.
The move comes in the background of interest expressed by the Govt. of Finland for co-operation in the area of Space.
