The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Tajikistan on Cooperation on Youth Matters.
An MoU between India and Tajikistan to promote cooperation on Youth matters between the two countries was signed on 8/10/2018 at Dushanbe.
The MoU was signed by Shri Somnath Ghosh, Ambassador of India to Tajikistan, for Youth Affairs and Sports, Govt. of India and Mr. AbdullozodaAhtamRustam, Chairman of the Committee for Youth and Sports Affairs for the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan.
The MoU shall remain valid for a period of five (5) years.
The areas of cooperation on Youth matters include exchanges of youth, representatives of youth organizations, and Government officials in-charge of youth policy-making, extension of invitations to international conferences and seminars on youth matters held in the two countries, exchanges of printed materials, films, experiences, research and other information on youth matters, participation in youth camps, youth festivals and other youth events held in the two countries, and any other cooperative activities on youth matters jointly approved under the relevant laws and regulations of both countries.
The objective of the MoU is to strengthen and encourage cooperation on youth matters with Tajikistan through participation in events and activities organized by either side, information and knowledge sharing, and youth exchanges.
Benefits:
The Agreement will facilitate exchange programmes in the field of Youth Affairs, which will help in promoting exchange of ideas, values and culture amongst Youth and in consolidating friendly relations between India and Tajikistan.
The benefits arising from such bilateral exchange programmes between both countries would be equally available to all youth irrespective of their caste, religion and gender.
These will further help in developing international perspective among the Youth and expanding their knowledge and expertise in the areas of Youth Affairs.
