The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for deputation of Group ‘A’ officers of Department .of Telecommunications (DoT) and other Ministries, with Telecommunication and Information Technology background, to Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd.
(TCIL) as per the following details:
a) To allow Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) to fill up such number of posts by deputation of Group ‘A’ officers of the Department of Telecommunications(DoT) and other Ministries, with Telecommunication and Information Technology background, for the intervening period i.e. from 01.10.2016 till the approval of this proposal (earlier Cabinet approval was valid up to 30.09.2016) and for a further period of three years from the date of approval, as per DPE guidelines subject to maximum of 10% of the total number .of below Board level posts, in Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) with exemption from the rule of immediate absorption and
b) To allow that in future the issue of exemption of below Board Level Posts in Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) may be dealt in terms of DPE OM No. 18(6)/2001-GM-GL-77 dated 28.12.2005 so that such proposal is not required to be brought before the Cabinet.
Background:
TCIL is a leading ISO-9001: 2008 and ISO:2008 and 14001:2004 certified, Schedule-A, Mini Ratna Category-l Public Sector Undertaking (PSU).
TCIL, a premier telecommunications consultancy and engineering company, with a strong base in Telecommunications & Information Technology, was incorporated in 1978 by Government of India with following objectives :-
i. To provide world-class technology and Indian expertise globally in all fields of telecommunication,
ii. To sustain, expand and excel in its operation in overseas/ Indian markets by developing proper marketing strategies.
iii. To acquire State-of-the-Art technology on a continuing basis.
TCIL, a 100% owned Govt. of India Undertaking, has executed projects in more than 70 countries in the domain of Telecommunications and Information Technology.
It provides consultancy and turnkey project execution service from concept to completion, in the field of telecommunications, IT and civil infrastructure.
The authorized capital of the company as on 31st March 2017 is Rs. 60 crores, while the paid up capital is Rs. 59.20 crores.
TCIL is implementing the highly prestigious Pan-African e-Network in 48 countries which shall primarily provide Tele-education, Tele-Medicine and WIP connectivity to African Union member countries through optical fibre and satellite links since 2009.
This project is a time bound project and involves comprehensive operation and maintenance till July 2021.
In addition to the overseas projects, TCIL is executing a number of projects related to IT and Telecommunications at various places of India.
The major projects under executions are procurement, supply, trenching, installation, testing and maintenance to facilitate exclusive optical NLD Backbone network for Defence and NFS Network for Indian Navy on turnkey basis, OPGW Project in J&K, DOP Rural ICT solution (RH) Project, Odisha (ICT) projects in 500 schools & 1500 schools, U.P., web based services across various states of India.
Supplying of hardware and software to BBNL for project management works of NOFN project, etc.
For execution of ongoing overseas/ inland projects besides expected projects in pipeline, TCIL requires experienced and talented senior officers of telecom and IT background as per the requirement of the projects handled by it, from time to time.
By taking expert manpower on deputation, TCIL can remain competitive in national and international market as it is difficult for TCIL to get such manpower from the open market at the economical rates as compared to deputationist and that too at a short notice.
Moreover, in case TCIL engage manpower from open market, it becomes a permanent liability on TCIL as against the deputationists, who remain with TCIL only for the project period for which their services are required.
Accordingly, the Cabinet has allowed TCIL to fill up posts on deputation from Group ‘A’ officers of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and other Ministries, with Telecommunication and information Technology background for the intervening period i.e. from 01.10.2016 till the approval of this proposal (earlier Cabinet approval was valid up to 30.09.2016) and for a further period of three years from the date of approval as per DPE guidelines subject to maximum of 10% of the total number of below Board level posts in TCIL Cabinet has further allowed that in future the issue of exemption of below Board Level Posts in Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) may be dealt in terms of DPE OM No. 18(6)72001-GM-GL-77 dated 28.12.2.005.
