The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised about an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space between India and Armenia.
The MoU has already been signed in April, 2017.
This MoU shall enable the areas of cooperation such as, space science, technology and applications including remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication and satellite based navigation; space science and planetary exploration; use of spacecraft and space systems and ground system; and application of space technology.
The MoU would lead to setting up of a Joint Working Group, drawing members from Department of Space/ Indian Space Research Organisation (DOS/ISRO), and the State Committee of Sciences of the Ministry of Education and Sciences of the Republic of Armenia, which will further work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.
It will provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication; satellite navigation; space science and exploration of outer space.
MoU would lead to develop a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity.
Thus all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.
Financing of works carried out under this MoU shall be provided by the respective executive organisation with due consideration of national norms and rules concerning budgetary regulations in force in their respective States and within the limits of available resources.
Joint projects and works carried out under this MoU depending on the type and field of activity shall be on non-commercial or commercial basis and shall be executed either without mutual payments or on the basis of compensatory arrangements or contracts.
Background:-
Armenia has expressed interest in cooperating with India in the area of space.
Accordingly, a template of framework MoU for space cooperation was provided for further processing at Government level, for which Armenia side has given its concurrence in April 2017.
Accordingly, an MoU between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space, was signed at Yerevan on April 25, 2017 during the visit of Hon’ble Vice President of India.
