The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has accepted the major recommendations of the Sub-Group of Chief Minsters on Rationalization of Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSSs).
The Sub-Group had examined 66 CSSs and recommended that the number of CSSs should not normally exceed 30.
A consensus was reached on many contentious issues not only between the States represented on the Sub- Group but other States/UTs also through regional consultations and meetings with Union Ministries/Departments.
The rationalization of the CSSs would ensure optimum utilization of resources with better outcomes through area specific interventions.
This would also ensure wider reach of the benefits to the target groups.
The Sub-Group was set up in pursuance of the decision taken in the first meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog held on 8th February 2015.
The Guiding Principles of the Sub-Group had been to resolve the issues between Union and the States /UTs and to work as Team India in the spirit of Cooperative Federalism towards realization of the goals of VISION 2022 when we will celebrate the 75th year of Independence.
The objectives of the VISION are broadly: (a) providing basic amenities to all citizens in an equitable and just manner for ensuring a life with self-respect and dignity, and (b) providing appropriate opportunities to every citizen to realize his/her potential.
The major recommendations of the Sub-Group are as under:
a) No. of Schemes: The total number of schemes should not exceed 30.
b) Categorisation of Schemes: Existing CSSs should be divided into Core and Optional Schemes.
i. Core schemes: Focus of CSSs should be on schemes that comprise the National Development Agenda where the Centre and States will work together in the spirit of Team India.
ii. Core of the Core Schemes: Those schemes which are for social protection and social inclusion should form the core of core and be the first charge on available funds for the National Development Agenda.
iii. Optional Schemes: The Schemes where States would be free to choose the ones they wish to implement.
Funds for these schemes would be allocated to States by the Ministry of Finance as a lump sum.
List of Centrally Sponsored Schemes in accordance with the National Development Agenda:
SI.No.
Name of the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSSs)
(A)
Core of the Core Schemes
1
National Social Assistance Programme
2
Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme
3
Umbrella Scheme for Development of Scheduled Castes
4
Umbrella Scheme for Development of Scheduled Tribes
5
Umbrella Programme for Development of Minorities
6
Umbrella Scheme for Development of Backward Classes, Differently Abled and other Vulnerable Groups
(B)
Core Schemes
7
Green Revolution (Krishi Unnati Schemes and Rashtriya KrishiVikas Yojana)
8
White Revolution (Animal Husbandry and Dairying)
9
Blue Revolution (Integrated Development of Fisheries)
10
Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana
a: Har Khet ko Pani
b: Per Drop More Crop
c: Integrated Watershed Development Programme
d: Accelerated Irrigation Benefit and Flood Management Programme
11
Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY)
12
Pradhan Mantri A was Yojana (PMAY)
a: PMAY-Rural
b: PMAY-Urban
13
National Rural Drinking Water Mission
14
Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)
a: SBM-Rural
b: SBM-Urban
15
National Health Mission (NHM)
a: National Rural Health Mission
b: National Urban Health Mission
c: Tertiary Care Programmes
d: Human Resources in Health and Medical Education
e: National Mission on AYUSH
16
Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (erstwhile RSBY)
17
National Education Mission (NEM)
a: Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
b: Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan
c: Teachers Training and Adult Education
d: Rashtriya Uchch Shiksha Abhiyan
18
Mid Day Meal Programme
19
Integrated Child Development Services
a: Anganwadi Services
b: National Nutrition Mission
c: Maternity Benefits Programme
d: Scheme for Adolescent Girls
e: Integrated Child Protection Scheme
f: National Creche Scheme
20
Mission for Protection and Empowerment for Women (beti bachao-beti padao, one-stop centre, women helpline, hostels, swadhar greh, gender budgeting etc.)
21
National Livelihood Mission (NLM)
a: National Rural Livelihood Mission
b: National Urban Livelihood Mission
22
Jobs and Skill Development
a: Employment Generation Programmes
b: Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna
23
Environment, Forestry and Wildlife (EFWL)
a: National Mission for a Green India
b: Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats
c: Conservation of Natural Resources and Ecosystems
d: National River Conservation Programme
24
Urban Rejuvenation Mission (AMRUT and Smart Cities Mission)
25
Modernization of Police Forces (including Security Related Expenditure)
26
Infrastructure Facilities for Judiciary (including Gram Nyayalayas & e-Courts
(C)
Optional Schemes
27
Border Area Development Programme
28
Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission
Funding Pattern would be as follows:
Core of the Core Schemes:
Existing Funding pattern of the Core of the Core Schemes would continue.
Core Schemes:
(a) For 8 North Eastern States and 3 Himalayan States: Centre: State: 90:10
(b) For other States: Centre: State: 60:40
(c) For Union Territories (without Legislature): Centre 100% and for UTs with legislature existing funding pattern would continue.
Optional Schemes:
a) For 8 North Eastern States and 3 Himalayan States: Centre: State: 80:20
b) For other States: Centre: State: 50:50
c) For Union Territories: (i) (without Legislature) – Centre 100%
(ii) Union Territories with Legislature: Centre: UT:80:20
Flexibility and Flexi-funds to the States/UTs:
a. While designing the CSS, the Central Ministries shall permit flexibility in the choice of components to the States as available under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikaas Yojana (RKVY).
b. Moreover, the flexi-funds available in each CSS has been raised from the current level of 10% to 25% for the States and 30% for the UTs of the overall annual allocation under each Scheme so that the implementation can be better attuned to the needs of individual State /UT.
