The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Morocco on cooperation in the field of water resources.
The MoU intends to enhance cooperation in the field of water resources development and management within the framework of their expertise and their respective legislations.
The domains of bilateral cooperation under this MoU include
1. conception, realisation and maintenance of the hydraulic infrastructure, notably big dams and water transfer projects;
2. integrated water resources management, i.e., conjunctive use of surface and ground water resources, enhancement of water use efficiency, resilience and adaptation to climate change, artificial recharge of aquifers, organisational, institutional and regulation aspects;
3. flood and drought management;
4. sustainable development and management of ground water resources including recharge augmentation; and
5. harvesting and valuation of rainfall water and resilience and adaptation to climate
• The cooperation also includes
1. exchange of visits and missions of experts;
2. exchange of information on programs, publications, expertise and results of research in the field of water resources;
• develop projects in domains mentioned above, in Morocco and India: develop partnership mechanism with the socio-economic actors in the two countries;
1. ensure reciprocal participation of experts to the water related events and projects;
2. and promote cooperation between Hydraulic Basin Agencies of the two countries with an aim to share the expertise on the implementation of the principles of integrated water resource management in the Hydraulic Basins.
The MoU also provides for setting up of a Joint Working Group(JWG) consisting of equal members from both the sides to monitor the activities to be carried out in fulfilment of the MoU.
The Working Group shall hold its annual meeting alternatively in India and Morocco.
In addition, the Working Group may interact at any time using telephone or video conferencing.
The cooperation, centered on the scientific, technical and technological fields, will encourage the establishment/development of bilateral relations between public and private organisations concerning water resources of both the countries.
While exchanging the expertise and experiences on latest techniques and technologies, both the countries can learn and improve their skills.
Background:
The Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation has been envisaging bilateral cooperation with other countries in water resources development and management through sharing of policy and technical expertise, conducting of training courses, workshops, scientific and technical symposia, exchange of experts and study tours.
Keeping in view the ongoing India-Africa cooperation, it has been decided to have an agreement with Morocco to exchange experience and expertise in water resources.
