A delegation of 30 leaders from the Muslim community, led by Imam Umer Ahmed Ilyasi, called on the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today.
Interacting with the leaders, the Prime Minister said he neither believes in politics which seeks to divide people on communal lines, nor will he ever speak communal language.
He said the politics of majority and minority had caused a lot of damage to the country.
He said employment and development are the solution to all problems, and he is focused on delivering them.
The Prime Minister spoke of the initiatives in skill development taken by the Union Government, and the work done by him as Chief Minister of Gujarat in fields such as education of the girl child, and revival of the kite industry.
The Prime Minister appreciated the gesture of the leaders, to take time out to meet him, even on the busy festive occasion of Shab-e-Barat.
The Delegation members appreciated the Prime Minister’s leadership over the last one year, and said they wanted to forge a partnership for progress and development with the Prime Minister.
They said that the Muslim community had rejected the divisive politics of vote-banks, and was interested in development.
The leaders congratulated the Prime Minister for his vision of Muslim youth with a Quran in one hand and a computer in the other.
They also congratulated him for the country’s success in the adoption of the International Day of Yoga, by the United Nations.
The Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and the National Security Advisor, Shri Ajit Doval, were present on the occasion.
The delegation included:-
1. Imam Umer Ahmed Ilyasi Chief Imam, All India Imam Organization
2. Dr. Khwaja Iftekhar Ahmed President, Quami Majlis-e-Shoora
3. Qari Mohd.
Mian Mazhari Chairman, Islamic Council of India
4. Moulana Mohd.
Haroon Imam – Khateeb Jama Masjid, Race Course
5. Moulana Bilal Ahmed Member, Shoora Tableeg-e-Jamaat Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya
6. Moulana Mohd.
Yunus Imam – Dargaah Sharif Ajmer
7. Moulna Nasirudeen Shahi Imam, Jama Masjid Kaithal
8. Moulana Mohammad Ikram Imam – Khateeb Jama Masjid Bangalore
9. Moulana Burhan Ahmed Qasmi Shahi Imam – Jama Masjid Jaipur
10. Moulana Allama Zafar Janakpuri Shahi Imam – Muballig – e – Azam
11. Moulana Ayub Ali Imam – Masjid Shahjahan Ajmer
12. Moulana Zakir Hussain Tableeg -e- Jamat
13. Moulana Abdul Majeed Shahi Imam-Khateeb Jama Masjid Cantt
14. Moulna Qari Abdul Lateef Imam – Masjid Sarai Kale khan Mohatmim Madarsa Faizia Miftahul Quran
15. Moulana Ilyas Bharatpuri Imam-Khateeb Mohatmim Madarsa Mariful Quran, Delhi
16. Moulna Mufti Zulfikar President, Tanzeem-Aimma – Masajid, Uttar Pradesh
17. Moulna Lukman Tarapuri Imam – Jama Masjid Anand, Gujarat
18. Moulana Aamir Imam-Khateeb Jama Masjid, Meerut
19. Dr. Parvez Ahmed Son of Late Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, Ex-President of India, World Renowned Heart Specialist
20. Dr. Asgar Ali Khan Advocate, High Court, Delhi
21. Dr. Firoz Ahmed Bakht Grand Nephew of Moulana Abul Kalam Azad
22. Dr. Aslam Parvez Ahmed Principal – Zakir Hussain College
23. Prof. Qazi Obaid Ur Rehman Jamia Milia Islamia
24. Moulana Ashgar Ali Shahi Imam, Patna
25. Mohd.
Kasim Journalist
26. Moulana Bilal Ahmed Bijroulvi Mohatmin Madarsa Jamia Arabia
27. Moulana Usman Gani Qadri President, Amin – e – Shariat, Gujarat
28. Prof. Abdul Haleem Khan Chairman – Girls College, Indore
29. Moulana Kalbey Rushaid Shia aalim e Deen
30. Moulana mufti Afroz Alam Qasmi Qazi Chairman – Markaji Milli Foundation
