PM appeals to fellow countrymen to stand in solidarity with distressed flood affected people in Jammu and Kashmir.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a fervent appeal to all the citizens to donate generously to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund today.
He made an appeal to all fellow countrymen to stand in solidarity with distressed flood-affected people in Jammu and Kashmir and be part of the national effort to support them in this hour of crisis.
The full text of the appeal is as under:-
“My Fellow Citizens, You are all aware that unprecedented floods have caused havoc in the state of Jammu and Kashmir.
A large number of persons have died or have been temporarily displaced.
Property and infrastructure worth crores of rupees have been damaged.
Our fellow countrymen in Jammu and Kashmir need our help at this critical hour to tide over the calamity and to rebuild their lives.
The Central Government is extending full cooperation to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir in the measures for rescue, relief and rehabilitation besides, direct assistance to the affected people.
I request all fellow countrymen to stand shoulder to shoulder with our distressed brothers and sisters in Jammu and Kashmir and be part of the national effort to support them in this hour of crisis.
I appeal to all citizens to donate generously to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.”
Payment Details:-
Payment may be made by cheque/draft/cash in the name of “Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund” and sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, South Block, New Delhi-110011.
As per directions on the subject the nationalized banks will not charge any commission on preparation of drafts favouring the PMNRF.
Online Contributions can be made through the website of Prime Minister’s Office i.e. https://pmnrf.gov.in/payform.php
Contributions can also be made directly in the account of Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund at any of the branches of the following banks:-
Allahabad Bank, Andhra Bank, Axis Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, Citi Bank, Cooperation Bank, Dena Bank, HDFC bank, ICICI bank, IDBI Bank Limited, Indian Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Oriental Bank of Commerce, Punjab and Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, State Bank of India, Syndicate Bank, UCO Bank, Union Bank of India, United Bank of India, Vijaya Bank and Yes Bank Limited.
Contributions can also be sent through Money Orders with no commission chargeable.
Contributions to the PMNRF have been notified for 100% deduction from taxable income under Section 80(G) of the Income Tax Act.
