The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the expansion of the mandate of Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project Implementation Trust Fund (DMIC-PITF Trust) and its re-designation as National Industrial Corridor Development & Implementation Trust (NICDIT) for integrated development of Industrial Corridors with permission to utilize financial assistance already sanctioned and sanction of additional amount of Rs.1584 crore within extended period up to 31SI March, 2022.
There is an existing approval for expenditure of Rs. 18,500 crore, out of which the unspent balance yet to be released to DMIC-PITF will be utilised by NICDIT.
A further sum of Rs. 1584 crore for project development activities of four additional corridors and NICDIT’s administrative expenses upto 31.03.2022 has been provided.
The five Industrial corridors presently cover the States, namely, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu.
NICDIT would be an apex body under the administrative control of DIPP for coordinated and unified development of all the industrial corridors in the country.
It will channelize Gol funds as well as institutional funds while ensuring that the various corridors are properly planned and implemented keeping in view the broad national perspectives regarding industrial and city development, and will support project development activities, appraise, approve and sanction projects.
It will coordinate all central efforts for the development of Industrial Corridor projects and will monitor their implementation.
DMICDC will function as a knowledge partner to NICDIT in respect of all the Industrial Corridors in addition to its present DMIC work, till Knowledge Partner(s) for other Industrial Corridors are in place.
An Apex Monitoring Authority under the chairpersonship of the Finance Minister will be constituted to periodically review the activities of NICDIT and progress of the projects.
It will consist of Minister-in-charge of Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Minister of Railways, Minister of Road Transport & Highways, Minister of Shipping, Vice-Chairman of NITI Aayog and Chief Ministers of States concerned as Members.
The Board of Trustees of NICDIT will consist of (i) Chairperson – Secretary, DIPP, (ii) Secretary, Department of Expenditure, (iii) Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, (iv) Secretary, Road Transport & Highways, (v) Secretary, Shipping (vi) Chairman, Railway Board, (vii) CEO, NITI Aayog, and (viii) Member Secretary, who will act as full time CEO of NICDIT.
CEO, DMICDC will also function as Member Secretary/ CEO of the NICDIT.
The formation of the NICDIT will enable development and implementation of Industrial Corridor Projects across India by bringing in holistic planning and development approach and sharing the learning from development of Industrial Corridors, which will enable innovation in areas such as planning, design development and funding of such projects.
This will help enhance the share of manufacturing in the country, attract investment in manufacturing and service industry sectors, which will have a catalytic effect on up-gradation and development of skills of the workforce and generation of employment opportunities.
Details and progress of schemes already running:
(i) Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) is the first such Industrial Corridor, approved by the Union Cabinet in 2011 with a grant of Rs. 17,500 crore as Project Implementation Fund, and an additional corpus of Rs. 1000 Crore for Project Development activities, to be provided over a period of five years for seven industrial cities in Phase-I of the project, Government of Japan has committed US$ 4.5 billion investment in the first phase of DMIC project.
Construction work in four industrial cities/townships namely, Dholera Special Investment Region (DSIR) near Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Shendra- Bidkin Industrial Park near Aurangabad in Maharashtra, Integrated Industrial Township Project, Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Integrated Industrial Township Vila-am Udyogpuri near Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh.
Other Projects under DMIC are at different stages of project planning and development.
(ii) Chennai- Bengalutu Industrial Corridor (CBIC): As per initial master planning, three Nodes, namely, Tumkur (Karnataka), Krishnapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) and Ponneri (Tamil Nadu) have been identified for development.
(iii) Bengaluru Mumbai Economic Corridor (BMEC):- State Government of Karnataka has identified Dharwad Node for Development.
The Government of Maharashtra has given in principle approval for Development of a node in Sangli or Solapur Districts.
(iv) Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC) will use Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC) of Railways as the backbone and the highway system that exist on this route.
It is planned in such a way that there would be Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMCs) in each of the Seven State namely Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.
The BMEC and AKIC projects are at early stages of project development.
(v) Vizag Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC):- In compliance of the commitment made by the Central Government in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, it was decided by the Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India that Asian Development Bank (ADB) which had been getting a feasibility study done in r/o East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC) will also take up the study of VCIC as Phase I of ECEC.
ADB team has since submitted the final report regarding Conceptual Development Plan (CDP) of VCIC.
The process of Master Planning of the four nodes namely, Vishakhapalnam, Machilipatnam, Donakonda and Srikalahasti-Yerpedu of Andhra Pradesh, as identified by ADB in their CDP commenced in March 2016 and is likely to be completed by March 2017.
Background
To accelerate the growth in manufacturing and for ensuring scientifically planned urbanization, Government of India (Gol) has adopted the strategy of developing integrated Industrial Corridors in partnership with State Governments with focus on manufacturing.
Five Corridors namely, Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC), Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC), Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIG), Bengaluru- Mumbai Economic Corridor (BMEC) and Vizag-Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC) have been planned for development by Government of India.
