The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its ex-post-facto approval for extension of Addendum IX for the period from 1″‘ April, 2011 to 31st March, 2016 and renewal of Memorandum of Understanding between Government of India and Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute (SlCI) by way of signing supplementary Addendum X to the Memorandum of Understanding signed in November,1968.
The approval would pave the way of following activities to be undertaken:
A. Shastri Research Fellowship & Mobility Programme
i. Shastri Research Fellowships – Doctoral Research – Postdoctoral Research – Institutional Collaborative Research ii.
Shastri Mobility Programme
B. Faculty-ln-Residence Programme (New)
C. Faculty Development Programme for Vocational Education (New)
D. Library Programme
Online journals for Indian scholars and institutions
E. Facilitation cum Information Services (New)
i. Resource Centre (To Provide Access & Linkages to Institutions in both Countries) ii.
Seminars, Conferences & Consultations iii.
Publication of Research Materials, Documents & Reports
SICI shall also undertake such other activities, which will be recommended by Ministry of Human Resource Development based on new programmes and areas of cooperation between the two countries.
The SICI would undertake a number of programmes of the HRD Ministry requiring international engagement like Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN), Impacting Research, Innovation & Technology (IMPRINT), National Digital Library programme etc.
The institute also carries out programmes as laid out in the MoU signed on Higher Education Cooperation between the two countries in 2010 and under consideration for renewal for a further period of five years.
Ministry of HRD has approved an expenditure of Rs.33.176 crore for the period from 1st April, 2016 to 31st March, 2021 for the entire five years period of Addendum X.
Background:
SlCI, a bi-national organization, was established in 1968 through a Memorandum of Understanding between Government of Republic of India and SlCI signed on November 29, 1968 for an initial period of three years.
Since then, with the approval of the Cabinet, the MoU with the Institute has been renewed from time to time by signing Supplementary Addenda.
The last of such Supplementary Addendum called Supplementary Addendum IX signed for a five year period, expired on 31st March 2011.
Named after Late Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri, former Prime Minister of India, the Shastri Indo-Canadian institute (SlCI) was established with an aim to promote understanding between India and Canada through facilitation of academic activities between the two countries.
The Institute maintains offices in both India and Canada.
The role of SlCI is of facilitating fellowships and collaborative research initiatives that focus principally on the aspects that bring advantage to Indian-Canadian institutions and academics.
SlCI, in the past, had focused in the fields of Humanities and Social Sciences but expanded its area of interest from 2001 onwards into the fields of Law, Management, Information Science, Science and Technology and Human Interface of Science.
The membership of SlCI has expanded from the original four founding members to 35 Canadian Universities and 54 Indian Institutions including some of the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), Indian Institutes of Technology (lITs), National Law Schools, National Museum institute, apex bodies & institutions of research and premier Central and State Universities.
The SlCI is governed by Executive Council, formerly known as Board of Directors, which has three representatives each of Canadian and Indian Member Councils and representatives of Government of Canada and Government of India.
The Government of India provides financial assistance to SICI for maintenance of its Delhi office and for the promotion of Indian Studies in Canada.
The Institute also receives assistance from the Government of Canada, Canadian institutions and organizations.
