The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for extending the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) beyond 31.3.2016 for three years.
The major beneficiaries of the proposal would be the Safai Karamcharis and persons engaged in manual scavenging in the country since the NCSK will work for their welfare and upliftment.
The total expenditure for the extension of three years would be approximately Rs. 13.08 crores.
Background:-
The NCSK was established in 1993 as per the provisions of the NCSK Act 1993 initially for the period upto 31.3.1997.
Later the validity of the Act was initially extended upto 31.3.2002 and thereafter upto 29.2.2004.
The NCSK Act ceased to have effect from 29.2.2004.
After that the tenure of the NCSK has been extended as a non-statutory body from time to time.
The tenure of the present Commission is upto 31.3.2016.
The NCSK has been giving its recommendations to the Government regarding specific programmes for welfare of safai karamcharis, study and evaluate the existing welfare programmes for safai karamcharis, investigate cases of specific grievances etc.
Also as per the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, the NCSK has been assigned the work to monitor the implementation of the Act, tender advice for its effective implementation to the Centre and State Governments and enquire into complaints regarding contravention/non-implementation of the provisions of the Act.
Though the Government has taken many steps for the upliftment of the Safai Karamcharis, the deprivation suffered by them in socio-economic and educational terms is still far from being eliminated.
Further the practice of manual scavenging is still prevalent in the country and its eradication continues to be an area of the highest priority for the Government.
Hence, the Government feels that there is a continued need to monitor the various interventions and initiatives of the Government for welfare of Safai Karamcharis and to achieve the goal of complete eradication of the practice of manual scavenging in the country.
