Honourable Members
I am delighted to address this first session of both Houses of Parliament after the elections to the 16th Lok Sabha.
Let me begin by extending warm greetings to my fellow citizens, who participated in large numbers in the recently concluded Lok Sabha elections.
We should never forget that we are here because of them.
Serving them should be our first priority.
I also felicitate the members of the new Lok Sabha.
You have successfully obtained the mandate from the electorate and now you represent their hopes, aspirations and dreams.
I extend a warm welcome to all of you and hope that the sessions ahead with heavy legislative agenda will be productive and useful.
2. It is a matter of great satisfaction that the recent general elections were smooth and largely peaceful.
I would like to congratulate the Election Commission of India and the official machinery for conducting these elections successfully.
The unprecedented interest shown by the people of India in the elections is a sign of progressive deepening of our vibrant democracy.
Before I dwell upon the tasks ahead of us, I would like to express my solidarity with the families of all those who lost their lives during the election process.
3. I congratulate the new Speaker of the Lok Sabha on her unanimous election to this august office.
By successively electing women Speakers, the Lok Sabha has re-affirmed our age-old belief in the importance of women in our society.
Honourable Members
4. This has been an election of Hope.
It marks a turning point in the evolution of our democratic polity.
The surge in aspirations and the belief that these could be realized through democratic processes, has been amply reflected in the record 66.4% participation by voters, and a clear verdict in favour of a single political party after a gap of nearly 30 years.
The electorate transcended the boundaries of caste, creed, region and religion to come together and vote decisively in favour of Development through Good Governance.
President_Address
