Ahmedabad Shopping Festival – yet another major attraction, begins today
Vibrant Gujarat Summit 2019 gets underway in Gandhinagar tomorrow
PM to inaugurate the 9th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Summit to give a fillip to investments in Gujarat
The 9th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Summit gets underway at Mahatma Mandir Exhibition cum Convention Centre in Gandhinagar tomorrow.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of the summit aimed at giving a fillip to investments in Gujarat.
In the run up to the start of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit scheduled to be held during January 18-20, the Prime Minister inaugurated the Global Trade Show at the Exhibition centre.
The PM visited the various pavilions and evinced keen interest in the stalls of ISRO, DRDO, Khadi etc. among others bringing to the fore his vision of Make in dia with an apt tagline- From Charkha to Chandrayaan.
He was accompanied by the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Vijay Rupani and other dignitaries.
The Global trade show is spread over an area of 200,000 sq.
Mts, with more than 25 industrial and business sectors showcasing their ideas, products and designs under one umbrella here.
A series of events and programs have been organized alongside the summit.
One of the major attractions today is Ahmedabad Shopping Festival– 2019 which will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister later this evening.
Mascot of the Vibrant Gujarat Ahmedabad Shopping Festival will be unveiled by the PM on this occasion.
Ahmedabad Shopping Festival 2019 is the first event of its kind in India and provides an opportunity for the enterprises from the city to showcase their products.
In addition to the flagship events organized as part of Vibrant Gujarat, the 9th edition of the Summit will also witness the launch of a completely new set of forums aimed at diversifying the nature of knowledge sharing at the Summit, and intensifying the level of networking between participants.
Background:
Vibrant Gujarat Summit was conceptualized in 2003 by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was then the Chief Minister of Gujarat, to re-establish Gujarat as a preferred investment destination.
The Summit will provide a platform for brainstorming on agendas of global socio-economic development, knowledge sharing and forging effective partnerships.
The Highlights of Vibrant Gujarat 2019 include among others-
1. Roundtable for Opportunities in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Education & Research in India.
It will be attended by eminent educationists and key policy makers to prepare the “Roadmap for opportunities in STEM Education & Research in India”.
2. International Conference on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
3. Exhibition on Futuristic Technologies and Space Exploration which offers a vision of the future of space travel.
4. Seminar on Port Led Development & Strategies to establish India as the Trans-shipment Hub of Asia
5. Seminar on Make in India to showcase the Success Stories of Make in India program & key interventions by the Government.
6.Seminar on Opportunities for Industry in Defence & Aerospace to sensitize participants about opportunities in defence and aeronautics in Gujarat, and to deliberate on a way forward for India and Gujarat to emerge as a manufacturing hub for defence and aeronautics.
Since its inception in 2003, Vibrant Gujarat Summit has played the role as a catalyst spurring several other states to come forward with such summits to promote trade and investments there.
