I urge all parties to reject the motion that has been moved in the House
Today the nation has seen the negativity expressed by some members.
India saw how some people are so deeply opposed to development:
If you were not prepared for the debate why did you bring the motion?
Why were you trying to delay the motion
The only thing they have to say- remove Modi
What we saw among members of the Opposition was sheer arrogance.
Let me tell this member it is the people who elected us.
That is how we have come here:
What is his hurry to come to power?
In the morning, the voting was not over, the debate was also not over one member comes running to me saying- Utho Utho Utho…
To remove one Modi, see who all they are trying to bring together:
We are not here for selfish interests:
We are here because we have the blessings of 125 crore Indians.
We have served the nation with the Mantra of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’
Most of these villages were situated in Eastern India and the Northeast
Our government has the honour of working towards the electrification of 18,000 villages that were in the dark for 70 years.
Toilets have been constructed across India at a record pace:
Women are leading a smoke-free life due to Ujjwala Yojana.
Our Government has opened bank accounts for the poor.
Earlier, the doors of the banks never opened for the poor.
It is this Government that is bringing a programme like Ayushman Bharat that will give top quality healthcare to the poor: PM
The decision of neem-coated urea has helped the farmers of India:
India is making a mark in the start-up eco-system The Mudra Yojana is fulfilling the dreams of so many youngsters.
The Indian economy is being strengthened and India is also strengthening the global economy
The fight against Black Money is going to continue.
I know I have made many enemies due to this but it is fine Congress has no faith in the ECI, Judiciary, in the RBI, in the International Agencies.
They have confidence in nothing
What have we come to?
Everything does not merit a childish conduct:
One of the leaders spoke about Doklam.
The same leader, who believed the Chinese Ambassador over our forces.
Due to one careless allegation in the House on Rafale, both nations had to release statements:
My appeal to the Congress is please do not bring politics in national security:
I will not tolerate this insult to our armed forces
You can abuse me as much as you want.
Stop insulting the Jawans of India.
You called the surgical strike a Jumla Strike.
I was reminded about 1999 the she stood outside Rashtrapati Bhavan and said- we have 272 and more are joining us.
She destabilised Atal Ji’s Government and never formed one herself
I read a statement- “who says we do not have the numbers.”
What did the Congress do to Charan Singh Ji, what did they do to Chandra Shekhar Ji, what did they do to Deve Gowda Ji, what did they do to IK Gujral Ji Two times the Congress was involved in buying votes with the power of notes:
The entire nation saw what the eyes did today.
It is clear in front of everyone
The Congress divided Andhra Pradesh and their conduct then was shameful
NDA Government is committed towards the development of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
Just because of your internal politics with the YSRCP you are doing this, I had told the AP CM
I want to tell the people of Andhra Pradesh that we will keep working for them.
We will do everything possible for the development of AP:
A phone call would get loans for their cronies and the nation suffered
I want to tell you about the NPA problem.
Much before Internet Banking, Congress Party invented Phone Banking and this caused the NPA mess.
This Government stands with the Muslim women in their quest for justice
Any instance of violence brings shame to the nation.
I will once again urge the state governments to punish those who indulge in violence
India is seeing the record pace at which roads are being built, villages are being connected, i-ways are being built, railways development is happening.
