The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today announced a Rs. 80,000 crore rupee development package for Jammu and Kashmir.
Following are the highlights of the package.
Flood relief, reconstruction and flood management – Rs. 7854 crore This includes monetary help to people for reconstruction of damaged houses and for infrastructure; restoration of livelihood for traders and small businessmen; a plan for comprehensive flood management of the River Jhelum and its tributaries; and Jhelum-Tawi flood reconstruction project;
Road and highway projects – Rs. 42611 crore This includes construction of Zojila tunnel; semi ring roads in Jammu and Srinagar; projects under Bharat Mala for better connectivity; and upgradation of important highway and other projects in the State.
Power, New and Renewable Energy – Rs. 11708 crore This includes augmentation of power infrastructure and distribution systems; solar power; small hydro projects.
Health – Rs 4900 crore This includes creation of two AIIMS-like institutions in capital cities of the State, and support for creation of infrastructure in hospitals and Primary Health Centres.
Human Resource Development, Skill Development and sports – Rs. 2600 crore This includes establishment of IIT and IIM in Jammu; stepping up efforts under the HIMAYAT scheme to train one lakh youth over five years, and augmenting sports infrastructure.
Agriculture and Food Processing – Rs 529 crore This includes support for horticulture, and creation of cold storage facilities
Tourism –Rs. 2241 crore This includes new projects and tourist circuits, and setting up of 50 tourist villages.
Urban Development – Rs. 2312 crore This includes amounts under Smart Cities and Swachh Bharat missions; and for infrastructure in towns of Jammu and Kashmir.
Security and Welfare of displaced people – Rs. 5263 crore This includes amounts towards jobs for Kashmiri migrants, rehabilitation of families from Chhamb and PoK, construction of houses, and setting up of five India Reserve Battalions.
The India Reserve Battalions will create 4000 jobs for the youth of Jammu and Kashmir.
Pashmina Promotion Project – Rs. 50 crore
Total package amount – Rs. 80,068 crore These amounts are over and above the amounts already committed, including Rs. 837 crore under Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and Rs. 1000 crore given to the State after last year’s floods.
