The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s Address in the Lok Sabha.
In a series of tweets Prime Minister said:
“A Government has to work for the people of India, a Government has to be sensitive to people’s aspirations.
There is no room for corruption.
So many members spoke in the debate in the Parliament.
I thank them all.
I congratulate all those who will be voting for the first time in the 2019 Parliamentary polls.
Those born in the 21st century are now going to be voters and thus, they will play a role in shaping India’s progress.
It is trust and optimism that will take our nation forward.
We are not those who run away from challenges.
We face the challenges and work to fulfil people’s aspirations.
Our friends in the Congress see things in two time periods.
BC- Before Congress, when nothing happened.
AD- After dynasty- where everything happened.
India is seeing remarkable progress in the last four years.
In all spheres, investment, steel sector, start ups, milk and agriculture, aviation, India’s progress is outstanding.
In hating Modi, the Opposition has begun to hate the nation.
That is why their leaders go to London and do press conferences to show India in bad light.
You know what is my crime for them?
That a person born to a poor family is challenging their Sultunate.
In their 55 years, sanitation coverage was around 38% and in our 55 months it is nearly 98%.
Gas connections in their 55 years was 12 crore, it is 13 crore in 55 months.
We have worked at greater speed in our five years.
Think about it, Congress imposed Emergency, but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress insults Army, calls the Army Chief a Gunda but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress leaders create stories that Indian Army is doing a coup…but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress questions the EC and EVM but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress bullies the judiciary but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress calls Planning Commission a bunch of jokers…but Modi is destroying institutions.
Congress misuses Article 356 several times…but Modi is destroying institutions.
The people of India have seen the work a Government with a full majority can do.
They have seen the work of NDA.
They do not want a महामिलावट Government of those who assembled in Kolkata.
During the CWG 2010, our players were playing hard to win medals for India.
But, for Congress, Commonwealth Games were an opportunity to boost personal wealth of a few in the Party.
The phone banking of the UPA did wonders for the friends of their leaders.
Due to such favouritism, our banking system witnessed many problems.
I want to say it on the floor of the Parliament that the Indian National Congress does not want our armed forces to be strong.
They do not want our security apparatus to be strong.
Which companies are they bidding for that they are acting so shamefully?
Dr.BabasahebAmbedkar was always ahead of his time.
He had said that joining Congress is like committing suicide.
Thousands of organisations were getting funds from overseas.
We sought transparency in the process but these organisations shut down.
Why was such money allowed to come in without accountability?
Price rise and Congress are a team.
When Congress comes, so does rising prices.
The NDA Government has worked to keep prices under check.
What was the reason LED bulbs were so costly during the UPA era.
Our Government has worked towards the good health and wellbeing of the people of India.
Prices of stents, knee surgeries and medicines are coming down.
This is helping the poorest of the poor.
सितंबर 2017 से लेकर नवंबर 2018 तक यानि करीब-करीब 15 महीने में लगभग 1 करोड़ 80 लाख लोगों ने पहली बार प्रॉविडेंट फंड का पैसा कटाना शुरू किया है। इनमें से भी 64 प्रतिशत 28 साल से कम आयु के हैं।
इसके अलावा एक और तथ्य है। हमारे देश में मार्च 2014 में करीब-करीब 65 लाख लोगों को नेशनल पेंशन सिस्टम (NPS) में रजिस्टर किया गया था। पिछले साल अक्तूबर में ये संख्या बढ़कर करीब 1 करोड़ 20 लाख हो गई है। क्या ये भी बिना नई नौकरी के ही हो गया।
एक और आकड़ा है। हर साल इनकम टैक्स रिटर्न भरते समय, Non-Corporate Taxpayers भी अपनी आय घोषित करते हैं। इन्हें खुद Salary नहीं मिलती, लेकिन ये लोग यहां नियुक्त लोगों को Salary देते हैं।
पिछले चार वर्षों में देश में ऐसे 6 लाख 35 हजार नए प्रोफेशनल्स जुड़े। क्या आपको लगता है कि एक डॉक्टर ने अपना क्लिनिक या नर्सिंग होम खोला है, तो उसने सिर्फ एक व्यक्ति को ही नौकरी दी होगी, या कोई चार्टर्ड अकाउंटेंट सिर्फ एक व्यक्ति को नौकरी पर रखकर अपना दफ्तर चला रहा होगा? नहीं।
हज़ारों करोड़ रुपए की लागत से 99 लटकी पड़ी सिंचाई परियोजनाओं को पूरा किया जा रहा है:
India will be friends with both Israel and Palestine.
India will be friends with both Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Our foreign policy has led to India’s voice becoming stronger at the world stage.
We will always fulfil the aspirations of the people of India.
Arrogance got them down to 44 from 400.
Commitment to the nation and our hardwork got us from 2 to 282.
I assure you, those who have looted the nation will continue to be scared of Narendra Modi.
सूरज जायेगा भी तो कहाँ
उसे यहीं रहना होगा
यहीं हमारी सांसों में
हमारी रगों में
हमारे संकल्पों में
हमारे रतजगों में
तुम उदास मत होओ
अब मैं किसी भी सूरज को नही डूबने दूंगा।“
