•PM inaugurates Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Speciality Hospital •PM delivers Convocation Address at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University •PM inaugurates Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board Sports Complex •PM addresses Public Meeting in Katra
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Katra, in Jammu and Kashmir today.
He inaugurated the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Speciality Hospital, and delivered the Convocation Address at the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University.
The Prime Minister exhorted the students to always remember that one of the sources of funding for this University, was the donation made by poor pilgrims at the shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi.
He said that the students should also take a pledge to do something for the poor.
He said that the nation is scaling new heights, and with a youthful population, there is a lot that can be achieved.
He said the 21st century is the century of knowledge, and whenever there has been an era of knowledge, India has shown the way.
The Prime Minister appreciated the girl students for performing exceedingly well academically.
He also recalled the feat of Dipa Karmakar, who has become the first Indian woman to qualify for an Olympics gymnastics competition.
The Prime Minister later inaugurated the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board Sports Complex, and addressed a public meeting.
He appreciated the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Ms. Mehbooba Mufti, for her energetic leadership, and for the enthusiasm with which she spoke of the future of the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
He also recalled the former Chief Minister of the State, Shri Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.
Referring to the Sports Complex, he said that sports is extremely important to build sportsman spirit in society.
He also mentioned the FIFA Under-17 World Cup that will be hosted by India in 2017, and said this should be an opportunity for us to celebrate sports.
The Prime Minister recalled Shri Atal Bihari’s vision for Jammu and Kashmir – Insaniyat, Jamhooriyat, and Kashmiriyat.
He said that every effort would be made to work towards the development of the State, keeping in mind this vision.
