The Japanese Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Mr. Yoichi Miyazawa called on Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today.
He conveyed to the Prime Minister that he had come with a delegation of top business leaders, who have firm plans to invest USD 3.0 billion in India in the immediate future.
This, he said, was in pursuance of the shared commitment of Prime Minister Abe and Prime Minister Modi to enhance Japanese investments in India, especially in support of Prime Minister’s “Make in India” mission.
Mr. Miyazawa also proposed a new Joint Working Group between Ministry of External Affairs of India and METI of Japan on civil nuclear energy cooperation.
Mr. Miyazawa expressed happiness with the working of the fast track mechanism for India-Japan Collaboration – Japan Plus and underlined his government’s support for further strengthening it.
Mr. Miyazawa reiterated his Government’s strong commitment for providing and facilitating long term funding to support the development of India’s manufacturing and infrastructure, consistent with Prime Minister Abe’s commitment to Prime Minister Modi in Tokyo last September to facilitate financing and investments of up to 3.5 trillion Yen in the next five years.
He reaffirmed Japan’s interest in supporting the development of High Speed Railways in India, citing Shinkansen’s excellent record in performance and safety over five decades.
Mr. Miyazawa also discussed with the Prime Minister India-Japan collaboration in the energy sector.
Mr. Miyazawa also expressed admiration and aspiration for India’s rescue and relief mission in Nepal and added that it had earned India the respect of the world.
Prime Minister thanked Mr. Miyazawa for bringing a strong business delegation to India; reiterated that relations with Japan was a top priority for his government; Japan was a partner of preference for India’s economic development; and, that the government would continue to take steps to further facilitate and accelerate Japanese investments in India.
Prime Minister also suggested that India and Japan should work out a special long term arrangement for financing infrastructure and industry in India, consistent with the strategic partnership and India’s enormous economic opportunities.
