PM: I come to beseech Jayapur – adopt me.
Teach me how to solve the problems of villages.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today visited Jayapur village of Varanasi district.
He announced that as the Lok Sabha Member of Parliament from Varanasi, he had selected Jayapur as the village under Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana.
The Prime Minister is in Varanasi on a two-day visit.
Setting at rest all speculation over why he was choosing Jayapur, the Prime Minister recalled that soon after he was nominated to contest the Lok Sabha elections from Varanasi, he had learnt of a tragic fire incident in this village.
He had then spoken to officers and people to coordinate relief efforts for the village.
Stating that bonds forged in times of distress were timeless, the Prime Minister asserted that this was the sole reason for choosing Jayapur.
Shri Narendra Modi said that it is not MPs who are taking guardianship of the village under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, but villagers who were taking MPs under their wing, through this scheme.
He said that a good public representative has a lot to learn from villagers, their wealth of experience and their insights on solving problems.
He said the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana does not mean infusing additional funds in a village, but ensuring that schemes are properly implemented, and the entire village participates in solving problems and ensuring development.
“I come to beseech Jayapur – adopt me.
Teach me how to solve the problems of villages,” the Prime Minister said.
He said he wanted to remove the deficiencies that had prevented villages from progressing over the last 60 years.
The Prime Minister said that if one village developed as an Adarsh Gram, it would influence several others, and officers would also get an idea of how best to implement schemes.
The Prime Minister laid a lot of emphasis on generating social consciousness, and making significant achievements through the collective will of the people.
Every village should celebrate its birthday, and all should participate in this celebration, the Prime Minister said, adding that this is the best way to end casteism.
Can we decide that we will not allow Jayapur to become dirty; can we ensure children wash hands before eating, the Prime Minister asked the large, vociferous gathering, asserting that these things did not require Government intervention.
He said such positive social energy can help create a model village.
The Prime Minister also called for every family in Jayapur village to celebrate the birth of every girl child as a festival.
The Prime Minister said he has a lot of plans for Varanasi, but he hopes to achieve these objectives through people’s power – Janshakti.
