On 26 September 2015, H.E. Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, invited H.E. Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of Brazil, H.E. Ms. Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany and H.E. Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan, for a G-4 meeting in New York.
The G-4 leaders stressed that a more representative, legitimate and effective Security Council is needed more than ever to address the global conflicts and crises, which had spiralled in recent years.
They shared the view that this can be achieved by reflecting the realities of the international community in the 21st century, where more Member States have the capacity and willingness to take on major responsibilities with regard to maintenance of international peace and security.
In this context, the leaders noted with concern that no substantial progress had been made since the 2005 World Summit where all the Heads of State and Government had unanimously supported the “early reform” of the Security Council as an essential element of the overall effort to reform the United Nations.
They strongly emphasized that the process underway in the UN to bring about the reform of the Security Council should be conducted, given its urgency, in a fixed time frame.
The leaders paid tribute to the dynamic leadership of the President of the 69th General Assembly and the efforts of the Chair of the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) in moving the IGN process towards text-based negotiations.
They welcomed the adoption by consensus of the General Assembly Decision 69/560 to use the text presented by the President of the 69th General Assembly in his letter dated 31 July 2015 as the basis for negotiations within the IGN.
They also pledged to support and cooperate with the President of the 70th General Assembly.
The leaders also noted with appreciation the efforts of Member States in moving towards text-based negotiations.
They welcomed, in particular, the efforts undertaken by the Member States of the African Group, CARICOM and the L.69 Group.
They supported Africa’s representation in both the permanent and non-permanent membership in the Security Council.
They also noted the importance of adequate and continuing representation of small and medium sized Member States, including the Small Island Developing States, in an expanded and reformed Council.
The leaders emphasized that the G-4 countries are legitimate candidates for permanent membership in an expanded and reformed Council and supported each other’s candidature.
They also reaffirmed their resolve to continue contributing to the fulfillment of the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
They pledged to work together with all Member States and to accelerate outreach towards achieving an early and meaningful reform of the Security Council.
They expressed determination to redouble their efforts towards securing concrete outcomes during the 70th session of the General Assembly.
