25 leaders from the Muslim Community, under the umbrella of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind called on the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today.
Welcoming the delegation, National Security Advisor, Shri Ajit Doval, said that the whole world is looking at India today, and it is the responsibility of all segments of Indian society to take the nation forward.
Leaders from the delegation agreed with Shri Doval.
They said that the objective should be to take the country forward, together, following the Prime Minister’s call of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.
Praising the Prime Minister’s vision, members of the delegation expressed hope that the nationwide trust that he has among the people, will ensure prosperity and well-being of all segments of society.
They said that the Muslim community is keen to be an equal partner in the making of New India.
Noting that terrorism is a major challenge, they expressed a common resolve to combat it with all their might.
They added that it is the Muslim community’s responsibility that under no circumstances should anyone compromise the nation’s security or well-being.
They said that the Muslim community would never allow any conspiracy against India to succeed.
Expressing concern at the situation in Kashmir valley, members of the delegation said that only Prime Minister Narendra Modi can resolve the issue.
They appreciated the Prime Minister’s stand on the issue of Triple Talaq.
Members of the delegation, who are associated with educational institutions, also mentioned the progress made by their institutions, in Government initiatives such as cashless transactions, start-ups, and the Hackathon recently organized by NITI Aayog.
The delegation also appreciated the implementation of minority welfare schemes under the Union Government.
Welcoming the members of the delegation, the Prime Minister said that democracy’s greatest strength is harmony and amity (मेल मिलाप).
Emphasizing that the Government does not have any right to discriminate among citizens, the Prime Minister said that India’s speciality has been its unity in diversity.
He said that the new generation in India must not be allowed to fall victim to the rising global tide of extremism.
On Triple Talaq, the Prime Minister reiterated that the Muslim community should not allow this issue to be politicized, and urged the assembled gathering to take the responsibility for initiating reform in this regard.
The members of the delegation included Maulana Qari Syed Mohammad Usman Mansurpuri – President of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind; Maulana Mahmood A Madani – General Secretary of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind; Dr. Zahir I Kazi, President – Anjuman-i-Islam, Mumbai; Prof Akhtarul Wasey; and Maulana Badaruddin Ajmal.
