1.
Agreement on Transfer of Sentenced Persons
Under this agreement, Indian prisoners convicted in Qatar can be brought to India to serve the remaining part of their sentence.
Similarly Qatari Citizens convicted in India can be sent to his home country to serve their sentence.
This agreement would enable the sentenced persons to be near their families and would help in the process of their social rehabilitation.
2.
MoU for Cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technology
This MoU would provide enhanced business opportunities for Indian IT industry in Qatar.
Qatar has embarked on an ambitious programme for overall development as part of their Qatar 2030 vision and has created a dedicated Ministry of Information and Communication Technology for capacity building in ICT.
3.
MoU between Ministry of Earth sciences and Qatar Meteorological Department for Scientific and Technical cooperation
Qatar Meteorological Department under the Civil Aviation Authority, Qatar had expressed their desire for cooperation with Indian Meteorological Department in the field of Atmospheric and Ocean Sciences.
The scientific collaboration between India and Qatar will be beneficial to improve atmospheric & Oceanic capacity in both the countries.
4.
MoU between Diplomatic Institute of MOFA, Qatar and Foreign Service Institute,
This MoU would help in exchange of trainees, students, faculty members and experts between India and Qatar to enhance their skills and improve the training programme in both the countries.
Foreign Service Institute, MEA has signed MoU with several other countries for the purpose of exchanging information on structure and contents of training programmes for diplomats.
5.
MoU for cooperation in the field of Radio and Television
This MoU intends to encourage regular exchange of radio and TV programmes and material between Prasar Bharati of Indiaand Qatar Media Cooperation.
6.
Agreement for Mutual Cooperation and Exchange of News
The agreement between Qatari News Agency and United News of India is to enhance and develop bilateral cooperation in the field of exchange of English-language news on daily basis and free of charge.
