S.No
Name of Agreement/MoU
Indian Signatory
Chinese Signatory
Remarks
1
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic of India and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People`s Republic of China on Opening a New Route for Indian Pilgrimage (Kailash Mansarovar Yatra) to the Tibet Autonomous Region of the People`s Republic of China
External Affairs MinisterSmt Sushma Swaraj
Foreign MinisterMr.
Wang Yi
The MoU provides for conducting the annual Kailash Manasarovar Yatra through Nathula Pass in Sikkim addition to the existing Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand.
The route through Nathula will augment the capacity and reduce the hardship and journey time enabling many more pilgrims in particular aged pilgrims to undertake the Yatra.
2
Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Railways of the Government of Republic of India and the Government of People’s Republic of China on strengthening cooperation in Railways
Chairman, Railway BoardShri Arunendra Kumar
Administrator, National Railway AdministrationMr.
Lu Dongfu
Under the MoU, both sides have agreed to enhance cooperation in the Railway sector in following areas: (i)speed-raising, (ii)studying feasibility of cooperation in High-Speed Railways, (iii)Heavy-Haul transportation training of Indian Railway personnel, (iv)Redevelopment of Railway stations, (v)setting up of a Railway University in India, etc.
3
Action Plan between Ministry of Railways of the Government of Republic of India and the National Railway Administration of the Government of People’s Republic of China on strengthening cooperation in Railways
Chairman, Railway BoardShri Arunendra Kumar
Administrator, National Railway AdministrationMr.
Lu Dongfu
It provides specific projects for cooperation in railway sector.
4
Five year Trade and Economic Development Plan between Ministry of Commerce and Industry of the Government of the Republic of India and the Ministry of Commerce of the Government of the People’s Republic of China
Minister of State (I/C) for Commerce and IndustrySmt.
Nirmala Sitharaman
Minister of CommerceMr.
Gao Hucheng
It lays down a medium term roadmap for promoting balanced and sustainable development of economic and trade relations between China and India, on the principle of equality and mutual benefit.
The main objectives of the plan are : (i) reduction of bilateral trade imbalance; (ii) strengthen investment cooperation to realize US$ 20 billion investment from China in 5 years; (iii) a transparent, stable and investor friendly business environment; and (iv) enhanced cooperation between Chambers of Commerce and financial sectors.
5
Agreed Minutes of the Tenth Session of India-China Joint Economic Group
Minister of State (I/C) for Commerce and IndustrySmt.
Nirmala Sitharaman
Minister of CommerceMr.
Gao Hucheng
The tenth Session of the India-China Joint Group on Economic Relations, Trade, Science and Technology (JEG) was held in Beijing on 2nd September 2014.
Both sides held detailed discussions on issues to promote broad and deep bilateral trade and economic cooperation between India and China and agreed to undertake measures to achieve sustainable and balanced trade.
Specific measures to enhance market access to Indian products such as agricultural, pharmaceutical and export of services will be expedited.
6
Agreement on Audio-Visual Co-production between The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting of the Republic of India and the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of The People`s Republic of China
Minister of State (I/C) for Information and BroadcastingShri Prakash Javadekar
Minister, State General Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and TelevisionMr.
Cai Fuchao
The Agreement would enable the producers from both countries to get an opportunity to pool their creative, artistic, technical, financial and marketing resources to co-produce films.
It would held Indian audio-visual products to gain greater market access.
7
Agreementbetween the Government of the Republic of Indiaand the Government of the People’s Republic of ChinaOn mutual administrative assistance and co-operation in Customs matters
Chairperson,Central Board of Excise and Customs,Smt J.M.Shanti Sundharam
Ambassador of China to India,Mr.Le Yucheng
The Agreement will help in enhancing cooperation to fight trans-border economic crimes and custom offences through sharing of information.
It would also facilitate trade through enhanced customs cooperation.
8
Memorandum of Understanding between Indian Space Research Organisation and China National Space Administration on Cooperation in the Peaceful use of Space
Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation,Dr. K. Radhakrishnan
Vice Administrator, China National Space Administration,Ms. Zhang Jianhua
The MoU enables both sides to encourage exchange and cooperation in the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes, including Research and development of scientific experiment satellites, remote sensing satellites and communications satellites.
9
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of India and the Ministry of Culture of the People’s Republic of China on Strengthening the Exchange and Cooperation between Cultural Institutions
Secretary, Ministry of Culture,Shri Ravindra Singh
Ambassador of China to India,Mr. Le Yucheng
This MOU is intended to foster long-term collaboration between various cultural institutions of the two countries.
These cultural institutions include museums, archaeological organizations and performing art centers.
10
Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation between National Book Trust of the Republic of India and the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of The People`s Republic of China
Director, National Book TrustDr.
M. A. Sikandar
Minister, State General Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and TelevisionMr.
Cai Fuchao
Both sides have agreed that China will participate in the New Delhi World Book Fair 2016 as the Guest of Honour Country.
The Agreement will help provide greater access to their nationals of publications of the other side.
11
Work Plan on Drug Administration and CooperationBetween China Food and Drug Administration of the People’s Republic of ChinaAnd Ministry of Health & Family Welfare of the Republic of India
Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Shri Lov Verma
Ambassador of China to IndiaMr.
Le Yucheng
Under the work plan, the two sides will carry out cooperation in fields of drug standards, traditional medicine and drug testing, etc.
Both sides will exchange delegations to enhance cooperation in this area.
12
Agreement on establishing Sister City relationship between Mumbai and Shanghai
Mayor of MumbaiSmt.
Snehal Ambekar
Executive Vice Mayor of Shanghai, Mr. Tu Guangshao
Establishes Sister-City relations between Mumbai and Shanghai.
It will enhance people-to-people exchanges fostering greater mutual understanding.
13
Agreement on establishing Sister City relationship between Ahmedabad and Guangzhou(Signed in Gujarat)
Municipal Commissioner, Ahmedabad Municipal CorporationDr.
Guruprasad Mohapatra
Mayor of Guangzhou, Mr. Chen Jianhua
Establishes Sister-City relations between Ahmedabad and Guangzhou.
It will enhance people-to-people exchanges fostering greater mutual understanding.
14
Agreement on establishing Sister Province/State relationship between Gujarat and Guangdong(Signed in Gujarat)
Chief Secretary, Government of GujaratDr.
Varesh Sinha
Executive Vice Governer of Guangdong Province, Mr. Xu Shaohua
Establishes Sister-Province/State relations between Gujarat and Guangdong.
It will enhance people-to-people exchanges fostering greater mutual understanding.
15
Memorandum of Understanding between Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation and Beiqi Foton Motor Co.Ltd. on supporting the setting up of industrial parks in Maharashtra
Chief Executive Officer, Maharashtra Industrial Development CorporationShri Bhushan A. Gagrani
Chief Executive Officer, Beiqi Futon Motor Co.Ltd.
Mr.Wang Jinyu
The MoU would lead to setting up of a 1250 acre Industrial Park near Pune, Maharashtra, providing cluster-type development and generation of employment for a large number of people.
16
Memorandum of Understanding between China Development Bank Corporation and iNDEXTb on supporting the setting up of industrial parks in Gujarat(Signed in Gujarat)
Chairman, Industrial Extension Bureau, Gujarat Smt.
Mamta Verma
Vice President,China Development Bank, Mr. Zhao Xiaoyu
The MoU would lead to setting up of Industrial Parks in Gujarat with the support of Chinese enterprises and provide a platform for cluster development and generate employment for a large number of people.
