1.
MoU on Modalities for Utilization of India’s Housing Grant Component to support Reconstruction of 50,000 Houses
Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Shri S. Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
2.
MoU on Implementation of the Grant Component of India’s Post-Earthquake Reconstruction Package in the Education Sector in Nepal
Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Shri S. Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
3.
MoU on Implementation of the Grant Component of India’s Post-Earthquake Reconstruction Package in the Cultural Heritage Sector in Nepal
Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Shri S. Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
4.
MoU on Implementation of the Grant Component of India’s Post-Earthquake Reconstruction Package in the Health Sector in Nepal
Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Shri S. Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
5.
MoU for Implementation Arrangement on Cost Sharing, Schedules and Safeguard Issues for Construction of Mechi Bridge under ADB’s SASEC Road Connectivity Programme (Tranche 2), Funded by GoI
Mr. Devendra Karki, Secretary, Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport
Shri Yudhvir Singh Malik, Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
6.
MoU on Drug Demand Reduction and Prevention of Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursor Chemical and Related Matters
Mr. Lok Darshan Regmi, Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs
Shri Hasmukh Adhia, Revenue Secretary, Ministry of Finance
7.
Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Standardization and Conformity Assessment
Mr. Bishwo Babu Pudasaini, DG, Nepal Bureau of Standards & Metrology
Shri Sanjay Singh, Director General, Bureau of Indian Standards
8.
MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nepal
Mr. Prakash J. Thapa, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nepal
Shri Nilesh S. Vikamsey, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
