Sl.
No.
Name of the MOU/Agreement/Treaty
Description
A. Defence and Strategic
1.
Implementing arrangement for deeper cooperation between Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force and Indian Navy
For greater cooperation and exchange of information in Maritime domain awareness between the Indian Navy and Japan Maritime Self Defence Force
B. Digital and New Technologies
2.
MoC between Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry on Japan-India Digital Partnership
To tap into the synergies and complementarities between Japan’s “Society 5.0” and India’s flagship programmes like “Digital India”, “Smart City” and “Start-up India” in areas of next generation technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), and IoT (Internet of Things), etc.
3.
Statement of Intent between NITI Aayog and Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry (METI), Japan on Artificial Intelligence (AI)
To encourage and develop cooperation on Artificial Intelligence technologies
C. Healthcare and Wellness
4.
MoC between Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of Republic of India and the Office of Healthcare Policy, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of Japan and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness
To establish a mechanism to identify potential areas for collaboration between India and Japan in common domains of primary healthcare, prevention of non-communicable diseases, maternal and child health services, sanitation, hygiene, nutrition and elderly care
5.
MoC between The Ministry of AYUSH of Republic of India and the Kanagawa Prefectural Government of Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness
MoC between The Ministry of AYUSH of Republic of India and the Kanagawa Prefectural Government of Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness
6.
MoU on Food Safety between Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) & The Food Safety Commission of Japan, The Consumer Affairs Agency of Japan, The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan.
For furthering cooperation between the the agencies from India and Japan in area of food safety
D. Food Value Chain and Agriculture Areas
7.
MoC between Ministry of Food Processing & Industries and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Japan in the field of Food Processing Industry.
Aims at developing India’s food processing industry with involvement of relevant stakeholders such as local governments, private companies, etc.
8.
The Program for Promoting Investment into India by Japan in the Field of Agriculture and Fisheries between Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare, India & Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Japan.
To promote development of agricultural value chain and fisheries, including aquaculture, by improving the investment environment for Japanese companies.
9.
MoC on Development of Food Value Chain in Maharashtra between State Government of Maharashtra and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Japan.
To facilitate investment of Japanese companies in food value chain in State of Maharashtra
10.
Memorandum of Cooperation on Development of Food Value Chain in Uttar Pradesh Between The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan and The State Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.
To facilitate investment of Japanese companies in food value chain in State of Uttar Pradesh
E. Economic
11.
MoU between Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India and NEXI, Japan
For stimulating trade and investment between India and Japan and strengthening cooperation in projects in third countries.
F. Postal
12.
MOC in Postal Field between the Ministry of Communications, Government of India and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Government of Japan.
To strengthen cooperation in postal field including through setting up of Postal Services Dialogue between Ministry of Communications and Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
G. S&T, Academic Exchanges and Environment
13.
MoU between Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), India and Hiroshima University, Japan for Research Partnership.
To promote research partnership in areas such as Electronics, Sensors, High Speed Vision, Robotics, Advanced Manufacturing including Mechatronics, Environmental Research, Intelligent Transportation, etc.
14.
MoU between Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), India and Research Centre for Advanced Science and Technology (RCAST), The University of Tokyo, Japan for Research Partnership
To promote research partnership in areas like Renewable Energy, Electronics including Robotics/IoT, Advanced Materials, etc.
15.
Agreement for Cooperation between Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), India and Institute of Innovative Research, Tokyo Institute of Technology (TIT), Japan for joint research in interdisciplinary areas for application in Industrial Research.
To establish research partnership between Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), India and Institute of Innovative Research, Tokyo Institute of Technology (TIT) in areas such as Advanced Materials, Bioscience and Information Technologies.
16.
MOC in Postal Field between the Ministry of Communications, Government of India and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Government of Japan.
To strengthen cooperation in postal field including through setting up of Postal Services Dialogue between Ministry of Communications and Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
17.
MoC between India and Japan in the field of Environment Cooperation.
To promote greater cooperation between India and Japan for protection and improvement of environment
18.
MoU between National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), India, and Shizuoka University, Japan for Academic and Research exchanges.
To promote academic linkages between the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research S.A.S Nagar, and Shizuoka University
19.
Memorandum of Understanding on Further Cooperation toward Indo-Japan Global Startup between Nagasaki University and IIITDM Kancheepuram, India.
Information Technology and Human Resources development along with Indo-Japan Global Startup.
20.
Memorandum Of Understanding on Academic and Educational Exchange betwen Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, India and Hiroshima University, Japan.
Joint Research Promotion and exchange of students and faculties between the two institutions.
21.
Memorandum of Understanding between Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad and National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Joint Research Promotion and exchange of students and faculties between the two institutions.
22.
(Agreement)Academic Exchange Agreement between Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and Faculty, Graduate School and School of Engineering, Graduate School of Information Science and Technology, Graduate School of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, Hokkaido University (MOU)Memorandum of Understanding on Student Exchange between Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and Graduate School and School of Engineering, Graduate School of Information Science and Technology, Graduate School of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, Hokkaido University
Joint Research Promotion and exchange of students and faculties between the two institutions.
H. Sports
23.
MoU between Sports Authority of India (SAI), India and University of Tsukuba, Japan for academic exchanges and sports cooperation
To strengthen cooperation in the field of sports development and excellence through joint programmes.
I. Exchange of Notes of Loan Agreements for:
24.
Project for the Construction of Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail(II)
25.
Project for Renovation and Modernization of Umiam-Umtru Stage-III Hydroelectric Power Station.
26.
Delhi Mass Rapid Transport System Project (Phase 3) (III)
27.
North East Road Network Connectivity Improvement Project (Phase 3) (I)
28.
Project for Sustainable Catchment Forest Management in Tripura
G2B/B2B Agreements
29.
Memorandum of Understanding between KAGOME Co., LTD., Japan and Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India
30.
Joint Venture Agreement between State Bank of India (SBI) and SBI Payment Services Pvt. Ltd and Hitachi Payment Services Pvt Ltd
31.
Memorandum of Understanding between Nissan Steel Industry Co., Ltd., Japan and Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India
32.
Letter of Intents and Acknowledgements of Private Sector Investment Project Proposals by 57 Japanese companies to make investment in India and 15 Indian companies to make investment in Japan, supported by Both Governments of India and Japan
