S. No.
Name of MoUs/Agreements
Description of MoU/ Agreement
Indian side
Iranian side
1.
Agreement for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on Income.
To avoid burden of double taxation between the two countries in order to promote flow of investment and services.
Smt.
Sushma Swaraj,External Affairs Minister
Dr. Masoud Karbasian, Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance
2.
MoU on Exemption from Visa requirement for holders of Diplomatic Passports.
Waiver of requirement of visa for the travel of diplomatic passport holders in each country.
Smt.
Sushma Swaraj,External Affairs Minister
Dr. Mohammad Javad Zarif, Minister of Foreign Affairs
3.
Exchange of Instrument of Ratification of Extradition Treaty.
It brings into effect the Extradition Treaty signed between India and Iran in 2008.
Smt.
Sushma Swaraj,External Affairs Minister
Dr. Mohammad Javad Zarif, Minister of Foreign Affairs
4.
Lease Contract for Shahid Beheshti Port- Phase 1 of Chabahar during Interim Period between Port and Maritime Organization (PMO), Iran and India Ports Global Limited (IPGL).
Leasing of a part of the area of the multipurpose and container Terminal for a term of one and half solar year (18 months) to take over operation of existing port facilities.
Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Shipping
Dr. Abbas Akhundi, Minister of Road and Urban Development
5.
MoU on Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine.
To develop and strengthen cooperation in traditional systems of medicine including regulation of teaching, practice, drugs and drugless therapies; facilitating supply of all medicine materials and documents; exchange of experts for training of practitioners, paramedics, scientists, teaching professionals and students and accommodating them in institutions for research, educational and training programmes; mutual recognition of pharmacopoeias and formularies; setting up of academic chairs; provision of scholarships; recognition of traditional preparations on reciprocity basis; permission to practice on reciprocity basis.
Shri Vijay Gokhale, Foreign Secretary
H.E. Gholamreza Ansari, Ambassador of Iran
6.
MoU on the establishment of an Expert Group on Trade Remedy Measures to promote cooperation in areas of mutual interest.
It aims to establish a framework of cooperation in the area of Trade Remedial Measures viz. anti-dumping and counterveiling duty.
Smt.
Rita Teotia, Secretary (Commerce)
Dr. Mohammad Khazaei, Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance
7.
MoU on Cooperation in the field of Agriculture and Allied Sectors.
Bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sector including joint activities, programmes,exchange of information and personnel; cooperation in the field of agricultural crops, agricultural extension, horticulture, machinery, post harvest technology, plant quarantine measures, credit and cooperation, soil conservation, seed technology, livestock improvement, dairy development.
Shri S K Pattanayak, Secretary (Agriculture)
Dr. Mohammad Khazaei, Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance
8.
MoU on Cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine.
To establish comprehensive inter-ministerial and inter-institutional cooperation between two sides including pooling of technical, scientific, financial and human resources; upgrading the quality and reach of human, material and infrastructural resources in healthcare, medical education, research and training; exchanging experience in training of medical doctors and other health professionals; assistance in development of human resources and setting up of health care facilities; regulation of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and cosmetics and exchange of information thereon; cooperation in medical research; cooperating in public health, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and international health.
Shri Vijay Gokhale, Foreign Secretary
H.E. Gholamreza Ansari, Ambassador of Iran
9.
MoU on Postal Cooperation.
Cooperation between the two postal agencies including exchange of experience, knowledge and technology in e-commerce/logistics services; cooperation on philately; establishment of working group of experts; feasibility studies on using air and surface transit capacities of both countries.
Shree Anant Narayan Nanda, Secretary (Post)
H.E. Gholamreza Ansari, Ambassador of Iran
