1
HE Sheikh Abdulla Bin Mohammed Bin Saud Al Thani, CEO Qatar Investment Authority
Sh.
Amar Sinha, Secretary (Economic Relations) Ministry of External Affairs
MoU between National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF), Ministry of Finance, Government of India and Qatar Investment Authority (QIA)
The MoU aims at establishing framework for facilitating participation of Qatari institutional investors in Infrastructure projects in India under NIIF.
2
H.E. Khalaf Bin Ahamed Al Mannai, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Sh.
Amar Sinha, Secretary (Economic Relations) Ministry of External Affairs
Agreement on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters between the Government of Republic of India and Government of the State of Qatar
This agreement promotes cooperation and mutual assistance between the two countries on matters pertaining to customs administration through exchange of information and intelligence.
3
H.E. Sheikh Ahamed Bin Eid Al Thani, Head of Qatar Finance Information Unit
Sh.
Amar Sinha, Secretary (Economic Relations)Ministry of External Affairs
MoU between Financial Intelligence Unit – India (FIU-IND) and the Qatar Financial Information Unit (QFIU) concerning cooperation in the exchange of intelligence related to money laundering, terrorism-financing and related crimes
The MoU facilitates exchange of intelligence related to money laundering, terrorism-financing and related crimes and persons connected thereto.
4
H.E. Rabeea Mohammed Al Kaabi, Under Secretary, Ministry of Education and Higher Education
Sh.
Amar Sinha, Secretary (Economic Relations) Ministry of External Affairs
MoU between the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the Government of Republic of India and the National Qualifications Authority/Supreme Education Council, Government of the State of Qatar for Cooperation in Skill Development and Recognition of Qualifications
This MoU aims to enhance cooperation between the two countries on skill development and mutual recognition of qualifications to facilitate mobility of skilled workers from India to Qatar.
5
Mr. Hassan Bin Abdul Rahman Al Ibrahim, Head of Tourism Development and Acting Head of General Tourism Authority
HE Mr. Sanjiv Arora, Ambassador of India to Qatar
MoU on cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Republic of India and Government of the State of Qatar.
The MoU aims at bilateral cooperation in the field of planning and developing of tourism, through marketing and promotion as also to support cooperation between private sector stakeholders.
6
H.E. Ahamed Bin Abdulla Al Khulaifi, Assistant of Minister of Health For Administrative Affairs
Sh.
Sanjiv Arora, Ambassador of India to Qatar
MOU between India & Qatar for Cooperation in the field of Health the Government of the Republic of India and Government of the State of Qatar.
This MoU provides cooperation in areas of health, including interalia in occupational and environmental health, pharmaceuticals, medical education, exchange of the best practices in the field of primary healthcare, research in the field of health care, technology, health care system and exchange of medical experts and scientists.
7
Mr. Faleh Bin Mubrarak Al Hajri, Director, Department of Culture and Arts, Ministry of Culture and Sports
Sh.
Sanjiv Arora, Ambassador of India to Qatar
The First Executive Programme for MoU in the field of Youth and Sports between the Government of Republic of India and Government of the State of Qatar
As a follow up to the existing MoU in the field of Youth and Sports, the first Executive Programme provides for exchanges and cooperation in sports activities, training camps for sports teams and exchange visits of leaders and officials etc between the two countries.
