The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy between India and Mongolia.
The signing of the proposed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), will enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the areas of traditional medicine.
This will be of immense importance to both countries considering their shared historical and cultural legacy.
The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will provide a structured framework for cooperation between the two countries for the promotion of Indian Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy in Mongolia.
Background:
India is blessed with well-developed systems of traditional medicine including medicinal plants, which hold tremendous potential in the global health scenario.
Traditional medicine is a significant component of Mongolian health care.
‘Sowa Rigpa’ is one of the Indian Traditional Systems of Medicine which is practiced in the Trans-Himalayan region and higher Himalayan parts of India.
It is reported that a system similar to it is widely practiced in Mongolia as Traditional Mongolian Medicine.
India and Mongolia have interacted through history over a period of 2600 years.
Following the emergence of Mongolia as a modern nation state in the 20th Century, the two countries had continued to build relations based on shared historical and cultural legacy.
In the recent years, the relationship between the two countries have been marked by close contacts at high level, including cooperation in the field of health and medicine.
The Ministry of AYUSH as a part of its mandate to propagate Indian systems of Medicine globally had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine (SATCM), China, Malaysia, Trinidad & Tobago, Hungary, Bangladesh and Nepal for cooperation in traditional medicine.
Recently, a MoU on cooperation in the field of Traditional Medicine & Homoeopathy was signed with Mauritius during the visit of the Prime Minister to Mauritius in March.
A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the field of traditional medicine, has already been approved by the Cabinet for signing with Serbia.
