The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval for the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) Phase-II.
The second phase will be implemented in the States of Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal with World Bank Assistance at a total cost 2361.35 crore to address the vulnerability of the coastal community to cyclone.
This section of the population is generally poor and from weaker sections of society.
For the NCRMP Phase-II, the Central Government will provide financial assistance equivalent to Rs. 1881.20 crore through a World Bank loan.
The remaining amount of Rs. 480.15 crore will be provided by the State Governments of Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal.
The broad objectives of the project are to provide cyclone forecasting, tracking and warning systems, cyclone risk mitigation and capacity building in multi-hazard risk management.
Major infrastructure which will be constructed under the project includes multipurpose cyclone shelters, access roads, saline embankments and underground cabling.
The primary focus of the project is disaster mitigation with an objective to minimize loss of lives and property in the vulnerable States.
The investments proposed in the States would strengthen the coastal infrastructure for protection of the community and their evacuation, greater accessibility, improved warning dissemination and quicker response.
The project is expected to benefit lakhs of people in Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal and help in protection of land.
The project is to be implemented from 2015-16 to 2019-2020.
Background:-
Approximately 5700 km out of around 7516 kms of India’s coastline, its flat coastal terrain and high population density are extremely vulnerable to cyclones and its associated hazards such as storm surges, high winds and heavy rainfall.
Approximately 40 percent of the total population in the maritime States, lives within 100 kms of coastlines.
Recurrent cyclones account for a large number of deaths, loss of livelihood opportunities, loss of public and private property, and severe damage to infrastructure.
This reverses developmental gains at regular intervals.
The project is part of a series of disaster risk mitigation initiatives to be implemented to reduce loss of life and property in the event of future calamities.
The first Phase of the project is being implemented since 2011 in the States of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.
This is with World Bank assistance at a total cost of Rs. 1496.71 crore and its cost is being revised to Rs. 2331.71 crore.
