The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today delivered his address on the third and concluding day of the Conference of Directors-General of Police, at Dhordo, Kutch.
The Prime Minister expressed happiness over the quality and depth of the discussions he had observed, and said this is an indication of the dedication and professional competence of the police force.
He called for a clear roadmap to implement the recommendations that emerged from this Conference.
The Prime Minister said that the discussions and inputs involved both junior and senior officers, from across the country, and this had helped break silos, which is a significant achievement.
Shri Narendra Modi said sensitivity should be a vital element of policing, and a flexible institutional framework should be built, which can help imbibe sensitivity towards citizens in the police force.
He said police forces should establish links with local communities, and one way of doing this is to celebrate the successes and achievements of people in the community.
He said that when people visit police stations to celebrate their achievements, they would also develop a greater understanding and respect for the work done by police officers.
He said people in a community should identify with police stations.
The Prime Minister touched upon subjects such as cyber-security, digital technology and social media, and said police officers should use emerging technologies effectively in their work.
He called for greater interaction between the police forces of neighbouring districts across inter-state borders.
The Prime Minister also spoke on the subjects of tourism policing, disaster management and police training.
Shri Narendra Modi praised the dedication and selfless service put in by the police officers, and their commitment to duty, which he said was the essence of the nation’s security.
The Prime Minister also gave away the President’s medals for distinguished service to IB Officers.
Earlier in the day, the delegates discussed the subject of police universities, and forensic science university.
Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, and Ministers of State for Home, Shri Kiren Rijiju and Shri Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary were present.
