Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today addressed officers, soldiers and air warriors of the Indian Army and Air Force at Leh.
He condemned the continuing proxy war by Pakistan.
He said that the neighbouring country has lost the strength to fight a conventional war, but continues to engage in the proxy war of terrorism.
The Prime Minister said the Indian Armed Forces are suffering more casualties from terrorism than from war.
He said this is a global problem and all humanitarian forces of the world should unite to fight it.
India is committed to strengthening and uniting these humanitarian forces.
The Prime Minister said India is committed to strong armed forces, well-equipped with modern arms and technology.
He said that the jawans should be assured that the entire country supports them.
In an emotional vein, Shri Narendra Modi said soldiers remain undeterred in spite of the many negatives and struggles that their families face in day-to-day life.
The Prime Minister said that this energy and sense of duty inspires him and therefore, he keeps visiting jawans on the border to seek inspiration.
The Prime Minister said that our armed forces deployed in border areas are well-connected with the people who live there.
He highlighted the example of the Kargil infiltrations, about which the first information was given to our armed forces by a shepherd named Tashi Namgyal.
The Prime Minister mentioned provisions made in the recent Union Budget towards the modernization and welfare of the armed forces, including ‘One Rank One Pension’.
He also promised that the National War Memorial would be built and would inspire future generations of India.
He said that the government is committed to make India self-reliant in defence manufacturing.
Later, writing in the Visitor’s Book at Leh Auditorium, Shri Narendra Modi said that peace and security is a pre-requisite for development.
The Prime Minister also interacted with jawans.
The Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Shri N N Vohra, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Shri Omar Abdullah, the MoS (I/C) for Power Shri Piyush Goyal, the National Security Adviser Shri Ajit Doval, and the Chief of Army Staff General Dalbir Singh were present on the occasion.
