The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today offered prayers at the temple at Narmada Udgam Sthal – the origin of the River Narmada.
He addressed a large gathering at the conclusion of “Namaami Narmade – Narmada Seva Yatra,” at Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh.
Speaking on the occasion, Swami Avdheshananda ji described the Prime Minister as a “Vikas Avatar” and said that the Prime Minister has inspired immense public awareness towards the cause of water conservation.
Addressing the gathering, the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the Narmada will be made one of the cleanest rivers in the world through people’s participation.
He said water treatment plants would be set up in all 18 cities in Madhya Pradesh which fall along the banks of the Narmada.
He added that the movement will not stop here, but will be extended to other rivers as well.
He expressed confidence that under Prime Minister Modi’s leadership, India will become a Vishvaguru.
He also congratulated the Prime Minister on the upcoming third anniversary of the formation of the Union Government.
The Prime Minister released Narmada Pravah – the Mission Work Plan for the river Narmada.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said that he bows to the travellers of the Narmada Seva Yatra – and hoped that their efforts would bear fruit that serves India, and the poorest of the poor.
Stating that the River Narmada has been a life-giver for centuries, the Prime Minister said that in recent times, the Narmada has been brutally exploited, and that is what had led to the need for a Narmada Seva Yatra.
He added that if we do not protect and nurture our rivers, mankind will be the loser.
The Prime Minister said that the Narmada Seva Yatra of nearly 150 days, is extraordinary, even by global standards.
Noting that the River Narmada does not emerge from snows, but from trees, the Prime Minister said the Madhya Pradesh Government’s big tree plantation programme will also be a great service to humanity.
On behalf of the people and the farmers of Gujarat and Maharashtra, who benefit from the Narmada, the Prime Minister thanked the people and the Government of Madhya Pradesh, for the Narmada Seva Yatra.
The Prime Minister complimented the Madhya Pradesh Government for the State’s performance in the Swachh Bharat Mission, where out of the 100 top ranked cities, 22 are from Madhya Pradesh.
The Prime Minister described the document of the Narmada Seva Mission, presented by the State Government, as futuristic, with an appropriate vision for protecting natural resources.
The Prime Minister said the Union Government has resolved to double farmer incomes, and Madhya Pradesh has prepared a good vision document in this regard.
He urged people to resolve to make a positive contribution to the nation by 2022, the 75th anniversary of independence.
The Prime Minister thanked Swami Avdheshananda for his words of praise and appreciation.
In conclusion, the Prime Minister exhorted the people to be ready to make a contribution and sacrifice for the River Narmada, saying that while the Yatra may have ended, the Yagya has just begun.
