The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the opening session of the 49th Conference of Governors at Rashtrapati Bhawan.
The Prime Minister spoke at length about how Governors could leverage their experience in different walks of life, so that people derive maximum benefit of various central development schemes and initiatives.
He said the institution of Governor has a pivotal role to play within the federal structure and Constitutional framework of our country.
He said Governors of States with significant tribal population can help in ensuring that the tribal communities benefit from Government initiatives in fields such as education, sports and financial inclusion.
He said the tribal communities had played a key role in the freedom struggle, and this should be recognised and recorded for posterity through avenues such as digital museums.
The Prime Minister noted that Governors are also Chancellors of Universities.
He said that International Yoga Day on June 21st can be utilized as an opportunity to generate greater awareness about Yoga among the youth.
Similarly, he emphasized that Universities can also become the focal point of the celebrations for the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
The Prime Minister mentioned some key themes of development such as the National Nutrition Mission, electrification of villages and development parameters in aspirational districts.
He suggested that Governors could also visit a few recently electrified villages to witness first-hand the benefits of electrification.
He said that during the recent Gram Swaraj Abhiyan from 14th April, seven key schemes of the Government were implemented fully in over 16000 villages.
He said that these villages have been freed from seven problems through Jan Bhagidaari.
He said Gram Swaraj Abhiyan is now being extended to 65000 more villages, with a target date of 15th August.
The Prime Minister suggested that planning for the 50th Governors’ Conference next year should begin immediately.
This effort should focus on making this annual event even more productive.
