The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi addressed the last sitting of 16th Lok Sabha today.
He appreciated the role of Speaker Smt.
Sumitra Mahajan in conducting the proceedings of the House.
PM also complimented the role of the Parliamentary Affairs Ministers during the tenure of 16th Lok Sabha.
He recalled the services of former Parliamentary Affairs Minister, late Ananth Kumar for his contribution to the Lok Sabha.
Addressing the House, PM said it is almost after three decades the country saw a full majority government.
Speaking about the productivity of Lok Sabha, PM stated that total 8 out of 17 sessions saw a 100 percent performance while the overall productivity has been 85%.
Complimenting the members, PM said every member from the ruling party as well as the opposition has contributed significantly for the cause of people during this tenure of this Lok Sabha.
PM said this Lok Sabha would be remembered, for the highest number of Women MPs, out of which 44 are first-time MPs.
Acknowledging the participation of Women MPs, PM said, for the first time maximum number of women Ministers are in the Cabinet and we have two women ministers in the Cabinet Committee on Security.
PM said, “India’s self-confidence is at an all-time high.
I consider this to be a very positive sign because such confidence gives an impetus to development”.
He added that India is now the 6th largest economy and close to becoming $5 trillion economy.
Mentioning India’s achievements in various sectors of Energy, Digital Technology, Space, Manufacturing, PM said, “The world is discussing global warming and India made an effort in the form of the International Solar Alliance to mitigate this menace”.
PM said, today world takes us seriously because it recognizes full Majority Government.
And the credit goes to the mandate given by the citizens in 2014.
Speaking on India’s Foreign Policy, PM said, in last 5 years, India has played a great role in humanitarian works be it relief activities during earthquake in Nepal, Water crisis in Maldives or rescuing citizens in Yemen.
Highlighting India’s Soft Power PM said, Yoga is recognized globally today.
Many countries are now celebrating Baba Ambedkar Jayanti, Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti.
Giving an account of the work done, PM stated that about 219 bills were introduced, while 203 bills were passed.
Reiterating his Government’s stand against Black Money and Corruption, PM said this Lok Sabha has passed stringent laws like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, Fugitive Economic Offenders Act.
PM said, “It is this Lok Sabha that passed the GST.
The GST process revealed the spirit of cooperation and bipartisanship”.
Prime Minister Modi also spoke about other initiatives of the government including Aadhar, 10% Reservation for EWS, Maternity Benefit.
PM said, in a major initiative, over 1400 redundant laws were scrapped during this 16th Lok Sabha.
He concluded his address by extending thanks to every Member of the House for the support, contribution and smooth conduct of the house during 16th Lok Sabha.
