If India has to develop, no part of the country can remain underdeveloped.
Growth has to be balanced across north, south, east and west.
Launches National Digital Literacy Mission.
Dedicates to the Nation, IOC Oil Terminal at Jasidih; 765 kV Ranchi-Dharamjaygarh-Sipat transmission line.
Initiates Commencement of work on 3×660 MW North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Project.
Lays Foundation Stones for National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology Centre; and for New Incubation Facility at Software Technology Parks of India Centre.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today asserted that if India has to emerge as a developed nation, then no part of the country can remain weak and underdeveloped.
The Prime Minister said eastern India has remained underdeveloped, and growth should be balanced across north, south, east and west – so that common people across the country can enjoy the fruits of development in equal measure.
The Prime Minister was addressing a gathering after launching the National Digital Literacy Mission in Ranchi.
The Prime Minister also dedicated to the Nation the IOC Oil Terminal at Jasidih and 765 kV Ranchi-Dharamjaygarh-Sipat transmission line.
The Prime Minister announced that work would commence shortly on the Jagdishpur-Phoolpur-Haldia gas pipeline – which would become a major source of energy for eastern India.
The Prime Minister also initiated the commencement of work at the North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Plant.
He said this power plant would dispel darkness from Jharkhand.
The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone for two IT-related projects.
He said the state of Jharkhand has huge potential for development, and he would repay the love and affection of the people of Jharkhand through development.
The Prime Minister emphasized that if India has to be developed, its states have to be developed.
He referred to yesterday`s Cabinet decision to increase royalty rates on minerals.
He said that this decision would benefit Jharkhand enormously.
The Governor of Jharkhand Shri Sayed Ahmed, the Chief Minister of Jharkhand Shri Hemant Soren, the Union Minister for Communications and IT Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, the MoS(I/c) for Power Shri Piyush Goyal, and the MoS(I/c) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, were present on the occasion.
