The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed Destination Uttarakhand: Investors’ Summit 2018, in Dehradun.
He said India is going through a period of rapid transformation.
He said it is widely accepted that India will be a major engine of world growth in the coming decades.
He said the speed and scale of economic reform in India is unprecedented.
In this context, he mentioned that India had improved by 42 ranks in the Ease of Doing Business rankings.
The Prime Minister spoke of the reforms initiated in taxation.
He said the Insolvency and Bankrupty Code has made doing business easier.
The Prime Minister said that the implementation of GST is the biggest tax reform since independence.
He added that this has transformed the country into a single market, and has helped increase the tax base.
The Prime Minister said that the infrastructure sector is progressing rapidly.
He spoke of the fast pace of road construction, railway line construction, new metro systems, high speed rail project, and dedicated freight corridors.
The Prime Minister also mentioned the progress made in the aviation sector, and in providing housing, power, clean fuel, health and banking services to the people.
He said the recently launched Ayushman Bharat scheme will spur the development of medical infrastructure in the tier 2 and tier 3 cities.
The Prime Minister said that New India is a great destination for investment, and “Destination Uttarakhand” represents this spirit.
He spoke of the measures taken for investor facilitation in the State.
He also spoke of the progress made in initiatives being taken for improving connectivity in the State, including the Char-Dham all weather road project, and the Rishikesh-Karnprayag Railway line project.
The Prime Minister spoke of the State’s immense potential in the tourism sector.
The Prime Minister spoke of initiatives being taken in the food processing and renewable energy sectors.
He also mentioned the achievements of the “Make in India” initiative.
