PM addresses public meeting at Sher-e-Kashmir Stadium, Srinagar.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today announced a development package of eighty thousand crore rupees for the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
In his address at the Sher-e-Kashmir stadium in Srinagar, Shri Narendra Modi recalled former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s message of Kashmiriyat, Jamhooriyat, Insaniyat.
“India is not complete without Kashmiriyat,” the Prime Minister said, mentioning the Sufi tradition of India.
He praised the people of the state for reposing their faith in Jamhooriyat (democracy) and said that the progress of Jammu and Kashmir had to be based on Insaniyat.
The Prime Minister said his Government worked for “Sabka saath, sabka vikas,” and therefore, it was essential for development to reach all parts of the country.
He said the State of Jammu and Kashmir should return once again to the days when people from all parts of India saved money to visit the State.
He said that besides tourism, attention was being given to sectors such as Pashmina, and Saffron.
The Prime Minister narrated his experience of reconstruction following the Gujarat earthquake of 2001.
He said that though the State of Jammu and Kashmir had suffered a lot due to floods last year, he saw the spirit (jazba) among the people, and was convinced that the State would soon overcome the difficulties.
He recalled how he had rushed to the State soon after the floods and had spent Diwali last year in the State.
He also recalled how his mother had given him Rs. 5000 last year for flood relief in Jammu and Kashmir.
The Prime Minister said the atmosphere of gloom that pervaded India till recently has lifted over the last 17 months.
He said India is now considered the fastest growing major economy in the world.
The Prime Minister mentioned that the State from where young cricketer Pervez Rasool hails, should witness international cricket matches again.
He said top Indian cricketers use bats made in the State.
The Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Shri Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari, and Union MoS Dr. Jitendra Singh were present on the occasion.
