The event has been organized, as part of the centenary celebrations of the Satyagraha led by Mahatma Gandhi, in Champaran.
On this occasion, the Prime Minister launched several important development projects as well.
In the Water Supply and Sanitation sector, he unveiled a plaque to mark the foundation stone of Motijheel Project, the Bettiah Nagar Parishad Water Supply Scheme, and four Ganga Projects, namely: the Saidpur Sewage Network, Patna; the Pahari Sewage Network, Zone 4, Patna; the Pahari Sewagw Network, Zone 5, Patna; and the Pahari STP project.
In the Railways sector, the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of the doubling of railway lines between Muzaffarpur and Sagauli; and Sagauli and Valmikinagar.
He dedicated the first phase of the Madhepura Electric Locomotive Factory to the nation.
Via video link, he flagged off the first 12000 HP Freight Electric Locomotive, and the Champaran Humsafar Express.
The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone for a road lane of NH-2 in Auranagabad Bihar-Jharkhand border section; a petroleum oil lube and LPG terminal of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd at Motihari; and an LPG Plant of HPCL at Sagauli.
He also distributed awards to Champion Swachhagrahis.
Addressing an enthusiastic gathering on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the atmosphere at Motihari today, evokes the same spirit of mass movement, that marked the Champaran Satyagraha, a century ago.
He said that in this journey of Satayagraha to Swachhagraha, the people of Bihar have shown their ability to lead.
He noted the remarkable progress made in toilet construction in Bihar in the last one week.
He appreciated the efforts of the people of the State, and the State Government for the same.
The Prime Minister said that whether it is the Swachh Bharat Mission, or the fight against corruption, or the development of civic amenities, the Union Government is working shoulder to shoulder with the State Government.
He said the projects worth over Rs. 6600 crore launched today would go a long way in the development of the region and the State.He mentioned the project for the rejuvenation of Motijheel, which he described as a part of the history of Motihari.
He mentioned that 11 projects worth more than Rs 3000 crore have been approved so far, to prevent waste water from entering the River Ganga.
He said that about 50 lakh women had benefited from LPG connections through the Ujjwala Yojana, in the State of Bihar.
In this context, he also mentioned the LPG and petroleum projects launched today.
He said the projects launched today are part of the larger vision of developing Eastern India as growth engine for India.
He also mentioned the road and rail projects launched today.
He described the Madhepura Electric Locomotive Factory as a prime example of Make in India, and a source of employment in the region.
He said the 12000 HP engines, the first of which rolled out today, will help in significantly improving the speeds of goods trains.
He said that the work for this project, which was first approved in 2007, began three years ago, and the first phase has already been completed.
He said the Union Government is committed to fulfilling all its missions and resolves, with the help of the people.
Speaking of the achievements in sanitation, the Prime Minister mentioned that sanitation coverage has expanded from about 40 percent in 2014, to about 80 percent today.
He said toilet construction is ending social imbalances, and becoming a means of socio-economic empowerment and women empowerment.
He described the mass movement of Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan as a phenomenon unparalleled anywhere in the world, in the 21st century.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the resolve for Swachhta would write a new chapter of a clean and prosperous India.
