The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Jagran Forum on the occasion of the 75th anniversary celebrations of Dainik Jagran newspaper, in New Delhi.
Addressing the august gathering in Taj Palace hotel, the Prime Minister specially complimented, among others, the hawkers who distribute the newspaper every day, on this occasion.
He said the hawkers have helped the newspaper reach so many households daily.
The Prime Minister said that the Dainik Jagran has played a key role in generating awareness, and in the re-building of the nation.
He said, that based on his own experience, Dainik Jagran has strengthened the movement towards change in the country and society.
In this context, he mentioned initiatives such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao; and Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan.
The Prime Minister asserted that with the digital revolution, media would play a key role in strengthening the country.
The Prime Minister said that “Minimum Government, Maximum Governance”and “सबका साथ, सबका विकास” form the basis for New India.
He said that today, the youth feel that they are stakeholders in the development process.
He raised the question: why is our country backward even so many decades after independence.
Why could the problems of our people not be resolved, he asked.
He said that now electricity is reaching places it had not reached for 70 years, and States which remained unconnected to the railway, are being brought on the railway map.
The Prime Minister gave a series of comparisons.
He compared the period of 67 years (independence to 2014) with his own period of four years (2014-2018) in office.
In this period, he said, toilets in rural houses went up from 38 percent to 95 percent;
Rural road connectivity went up from 55 percent to 90 percent;
LPG connections went up from 55 percent of total households to 90 percent of total households.
Electricity reached 95 percent of rural families, whereas four years ago it had only reached 70 percent.
Only 50 percent people had bank accounts four years ago, while now almost everyone has access to banking services.
Only four crore people were filing tax returns in 2014, and in the next four years, three crore more people joined the tax network.
The Prime Minister said that all other things remaining the same, how has this change come about?
He said that once the poor and the underprivileged get basic facilities, they will themselves overcome poverty.
He said that the last four years are seeing this transformation happen, and the statistics prove this.
The Prime Minister asserted that the Government is keen to fulfil the aspirations of the people.
He said India’s use of technology is becoming a model for the developing countries.
He said that a combination of technology and human sensitivities is ensuring greater “ease of living.”
He mentioned strides made in waterways and air travel.
He mentioned shorter refill times for LPG cylinders, shorter waiting times for Income Tax refunds, passports etc.
He said Government is itself reaching out to those who need the benefit of PM Awaas Yojana, Ujjwala, Saubhagya, etc.
He also mentioned the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.
He said the beneficiaries of such schemes are the labourers, the workers, the farmers etc.
He said this movement towards empowerment of the poor will be taken even further.
He said the world is taking note of India’s progress.
The Prime Minister said that India has made some proposals before the international community to ensure that economic offenders do not find sanctuary anywhere.
