The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed a Jan Abhar Rally at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh, to mark the completion of one year of the State Government.
Before arriving on the dais, the Prime Minister visited an exhibition on government schemes.
He also interacted with the beneficiaries of various schemes.
Addressing a large gathering, he praised the State of Himachal Pradesh, as a land of spirituality, and bravery.
He recalled that former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had a special bond with the State.
The Prime Minister applauded the State Government for reaching people, especially those in the rural areas of the State in the last one year, through its schemes.
The Prime Minister said that the State Government is focusing on next-generation infrastructure.
He said projects related to highways, railways, power, solar energy and petroleum sector, are all underway in the State of Himachal Pradesh.
The Prime Minister spoke at length of the tourism potential of the State.
In this context he mentioned, that the number of foreign tourists coming to India, rose from 70 lakh in 2013, to 1 crore in 2017.
Similarly, he said, the number of approved hotels in India in 2013, was about 1200, which has now risen to 1800.
The Prime Minister recalled that for forty years, our ex-servicemen longed for ‘One Rank, One Pension’.
He said that when his Government assumed office, the entire gamut of issues, and resources required was understood.
Thereafter, OROP was implemented to ensure the welfare of our ex-servicemen.
The Prime Minister especially complimented the people of Himachal Pradesh for their commitment to cleanliness.
They have accepted ‘Swachhata’ as a ‘Sanskaar’ (culture), he added.
This also augurs well for the tourism sector in the state, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister explained how the Union Government has curbed corruption.
He said that through Direct Benefit Transfer, a check has been put on corruption and nearly Rs. 90,000 crore rupees has been saved.
