The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Indian community in Korea.
He thanked the Indian community in Seoul for the warm welcome they had accorded him.
He said ties between India and Korea are not just on the basis of business contact.
He said the main basis of the relationship between both countries is People To People Contact.
The Prime Minister referred to the age-old links between India and Korea, and recalled Queen Suryaratna who travelled thousands of kilometres from Ayodhya, and married a Korean King.
He also recalled that recently on Diwali, the First Lady of Korea, Kim Jung-sook, had visited Ayodhya.
The Prime Minister said that Buddhism had further strengthened these bonds of friendship between the two countries.
The Prime Minister said that he is happy to note that the Indian community is contributing to development, research and innovation in Korea.
He mentioned the popularity of Yoga and Indian festivals in Korea.
He said Indian cuisine is also fast gaining popularity in Korea.
He also spoke of the splendid performance of Korea in the Indian sport – Kabaddi – at the Asian Games.
The Prime Minister described the Indian community all over the world, as ambassadors of India, whose hard work and discipline has raised India’s stature worldwide.
The Prime Minister said that India is celebrating the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi this year.
He said that the world must know more about Bapu, and it is our responsibility to pursue this objective.
The Prime Minister said that India’s ties with Korea are strengthening, and both countries are working together for peace, stability and prosperity in the region.
He noted that Indian brands are now present in Korea, and Korean brands are household names in India.
The Prime Minister spoke at length of the economic development that has taken place in India recently.
He said India will soon become a 5 trillion dollar economy.
He spoke of the phenomenal progress made in Ease of Doing Business, and in Ease of Living.
He also mentioned reforms such as GST and cashless economy.
He mentioned that the world is witnessing a financial inclusion revolution in India.
In this context he spoke of bank accounts, insurance and Mudra loans.
He said that India’s prestige is rising because of several achievements.
He mentioned free treatment for the poor, the tallest statue in the world – Statue of Unity, and Digital India.
The Prime Minister also spoke of India’s developments in the field of clean energy, and the formation of the International Solar Alliance.
The Prime Minister said that there is a new energy in India today.
He also mentioned that tomorrow, he shall receive the Seoul Peace Prize, on behalf of the people of India, and the Indian diaspora.
The Prime Minister mentioned the ongoing Kumbh Mela at Prayagraj, and said the world was taking note of the cleanliness that had been kept at Kumbh this time.
He exhorted the Indian community in Korea to promote tourism in India, by their own individual efforts.
