The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Rising India Summit, organized by Network 18.
He said that when we speak of a rise, in terms of a nation, it has a very broad context.
He said that beyond the rise of the economy, he feels that Rising India implies the rise of self-respect among the people of India.
He said that with the collective willpower of the people, even the impossible can be accomplished.
He said, today, this collective willpower, is working to accomplish the resolve of New India.
The Prime Minister said that contrary to the common perception in many nations, that Governments lead development and change, while citizens follow; in India the trend has been reversed in the last four years.
Now citizens lead, and the government follows, he added.
He said the Swachh Bharat Mission has become a mass movement in a short time.
Citizens are using digital payments as a weapon against corruption and black money, he added.
He said the citizens of the country have inspired the Government to take big decisions and implement them.
He said the transformational shift in India, is due to the resolve of its people.
He said that as a vision, the Government is working to reduce the sense of imbalance at the national level.
Through the help of a video, he explained how the UjjwalaYojana is transforming not just kitchens, but entire families.
This, he explained, addresses a big imbalance in our social structures.
He said that he has returned after spending the day in Manipur, where he inaugurated the Science Congress, laid the Foundation Stone for the Sports University, and initiated several other important projects for the North-East.
He said the emotional integration and demographic dividend of Eastern India must be kept in mind.
He said, the Government is working with the Mantra of ‘Act East And Act Fast For India’s East.’He said, this includes not just the North-East, but also Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha etc.
He gave examples of the gas cracker project in Assam;revival of fertilizer plants in Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri; the Jagdishpur Haldia gas pipeline; and the Dhola Sadia bridge, to show how emphasis is being given to kickstarting projects in the region.
He said 12 new airports are being constructed in eastern India.
The Prime Minister said that out of the 18,000 villages that had been left unelectrified, about 13,000 were in eastern India, and 5000 in the North-East.
He said soon, the target of electrifying these villages will be accomplished.
He said the Saubhagya Yojana would provide an electricity connection to each home.
He said this march of Eastern India, from isolation, to integration, would give strength to “Rising India.”
Turning to the health sector, the Prime Minister said the Government is focusing on four pillars in this sector:
• Preventive Health • Affordable Healthcare • Supplyside interventions • Mission mode intervention
On preventive healthcare, the Prime Minister said that there are toilets in 13 crore houses today, compared with 6.5 crore houses in 2014.
He said sanitation coverage has risen from about 38 percent, to about 80 percent.
He said Yoga has become a mass movement.
He mentioned the Wellness Centres announced in the recent Union Budget.
He also spoke about immunization.
The Prime Minister said more than 3000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras have been established across the country, where more than 800 medicines are available at low rates.
He said the prices of stents and knee implants have also been regulated.
He said the Ayushman Bharat scheme would offer health assurance to nearly 10 crore families.
The Prime Minister said that to address the shortage of doctors, the number of seats in medical colleges is being substantially enhanced.
He mentioned the National Nutrition Mission, launched on International Women’s Day.
The Prime Minister explained how the Union Government is working on a Unique Development Model for each sector.
On the power sector, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of breaking silos, and finding solutions.
He said the Power Ministry, Renewable EnergyMinistry andCoal Ministryare now working as one unit.
He said that India is moving from Power Shortage toPower Surplus, and from Network Failure toNet Exporter.
The Prime Minister said that today people believe that India can leave its weaknesses behind, and march forward.
He said this belief is the foundation of Rising India.
He said that today, the whole world is acknowledging India’s rise.
He said India is giving a new direction, not just to its own development, but also to development of the whole world.
He said India is leading the solar revolution today, as demonstrated by the recently held Conference of the International Solar Alliance.
He said that at international platforms, such as G-20 and United Nations, India has raised issues which affect the entire world, such as terrorism, black money and corruption.
The Prime Minister said that on the economic front, in the last three to four years, India has lent strength to global economic growth as well.
He said the country is performing well on all macro-economic parameters.
He said rating agencies are revising India’s ratings upwards.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is working with a holistic approach keeping in mind the aspirations of the poor, lower-middle and middle classes.
He said that the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana has become an effective means to empower youth and women.
