The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended the Dashamah Soundarya Lahari Parayanotsava Mahasamarpane at Bengaluru.
The Soundarya Lahari is a set of shlokas composed by Adi Shankaracharya.
At the event, there was mass chanting of Soundarya Lahari.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said he feels a special energy in the environment from this mass chanting.
The Prime Minister recalled his visit to Kedarnath a few days ago, and said he is filled with awe at the work done by Adi Shankara, in that remote location, as well as at other places across India, in his relatively short life-span.
He said Adi Shankara had united India, through the Vedas and Upanishads.
The Prime Minister said the common man could relate to Adi Shankara’s composition – Soundarya Lahari.
He said Adi Shankaracharya removed evils from the society, and prevented them from reaching future generations.
He said Adi Shankara had imbibed the best of practices from different ideologies and thought.
He said Adi Shankaracharya’s penance still exists in the present form of Indian culture – a culture that accepts all, and moves forward together.
This culture is the foundation of New India – and follows the mantra of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister said that in a way, India’s cultural heritage holds the answers to all global problems.
He said that in India, the stress has always been on preventing the exploitation of nature.
The Prime Minister said that LED bulbs which earlier cost more than 350 rupees, are now available for 40 to 45 rupees under the Ujala scheme.
He said more than 27 crore LED bulbs have been distributed so far.
This has resulted in savings in the electricity bill as well, he added.
The Prime Minister mentioned that over 3 crore LPG connections have been distributed through the Ujjwala Yojana.
This has not only made a positive difference in the lives of rural women, but also contributed to a cleaner environment, he said.
The Prime Minister said that the need of the hour is that efforts be made to free India from evils such as illiteracy, ignorance, malnutrition, black money and corruption.
