The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended the National Conference on the theme “Agriculture-2022: Doubling Farmers’ Incomes” organised at NASC Complex, Pusa, Delhi.
Seven thematic groups made presentations on the following subjects:
• Policy and Governance Reforms
• Agriculture Trade Policy and Export Promotion; Market Structure and Marketing Efficiency
• Value Chain and Supply Chain Management
• Science and Technology and Start-ups in Agriculture
• Sustainable and Equitable Development and Efficient Delivery of Services
• Capital Investment and Institutional Credit for farmers
• Promotion of Livestock, Dairy, Poultry and Fisheries as Engines of Growth
The Prime Minister appreciated the presentations.
He also complimented the farmers of India, especially for the big jump in production of pulses.
He said the Government is taking a series of coordinated steps to improve the income of farmers.
In this regard, he mentioned four aspects: reducing input costs; ensuring a fair price for the produce; reducing wastage; and creating alternate sources of income.
The Prime Minister said that 100 per cent neem coating of urea has led to an increased efficiency of the urea itself, while also increasing productivity.
He said that a study indicates that the use of soil health cards has led to a reduction in the use of chemical fertilisers, while increasing production.
Shri Narendra Modi said that the Union Government is working towards completing 99 incomplete irrigation projects.
He added that 50 of these are likely to be completed this year.
With each completed irrigation project, he added, the input cost of farmers would come down.
He said 20 lakh hectares of farmland has so far been brought under micro irrigation, through the Pradhan MantriKrishiSinchaiYojana.
The Prime Minister said that ‘Operation Greens’ announced in the budget this year, would benefit farmers growing Tomato, Onion and Potato.
He said 22,000 GrameenHaats would be upgraded with appropriate infrastructure, and integrated with the e-NAM platform.
The farmers will have a facility within 5 to 15 kilometres of his land, to connect him with markets.
The Prime Minister said that the amount sanctioned for agriculture credit has been enhanced, to ensure easy availability of credit to farmers.
He said several initiatives are being undertaken to convert agriculture waste to wealth.
