PM shares with farmers, his vision for revitalizing Indian agriculture
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today called upon all stakeholders, including farmers, States and the Union Government to resolve to double farmers’ income by 2022.
Sharing his vision for Indian agriculture, with farmers at the Krishi Unnati Mela in New Delhi today, the Prime Minister said that while this task may be challenging, there can be no doubt that this is an objective worth aiming for.
The Prime Minister described the Krishi Unnati Mela as a platform that could rewrite India’s destiny.
He said India’s future had to be built on the growth of agriculture, and the prosperity of its farmers and its villages.
In this context, he mentioned the recent Union Budget, and said it would have a far-reaching impact on these sectors.
Shri Narendra Modi emphasized that the next revolution in Indian agriculture had to be built on technology and modernization; and the eastern part of India had maximum potential to achieve it.
The Government is working towards this goal, he added.
The Prime Minister explained how the reduction of input costs was the first element towards raising farm incomes.
He said that the Soil Health Card scheme, and the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana are important steps towards reducing input costs.
The Prime Minister called for raising farm incomes through diversification in farming activities.
He said that along with crop growing, farmers could opt for timber plantation along the edges of their fields; and also begin animal husbandry.
He said diversification in farming activity will reduce the risk associated with agriculture.
The Prime Minister explained the benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, and said it had been evolved after wide-ranging consultations.
He said that the scheme is characterized by minimum premium, and maximum security.
Earlier, the Prime Minister visited the exhibition pavilions, and was given an overview of best practices and techniques followed by various institutions and agriculture entrepreneurs; latest agriculture equipment, and milch cattle.
The Prime Minister gave away the Krishi Karman Awards for 2014-15 to States and farmers.
He also launched a mobile application for farmers – “Kisan Suvidha.”
This will provide information to farmers on subjects such as weather, market prices, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and agriculture machinery.
