The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Indian Community in Uganda.
The event in Kampala was also attended by President Museveni of Uganda.
In his address, the Prime Minister said he felt a sense of belonging with the Indian Community in Uganda.
He said the presence of President Museveni at the event shows his love for the people of India, and the Indian Community in Uganda.
He also thanked President Museveni and the people of Uganda, for the honour to address the Parliament of Uganda on Wednesday.
The Prime Minister said that the relationship between India and Uganda is centuries old.
He recalled the historical links between the two countries, including the struggle against colonialism, and the railway construction work in Uganda.
He said several Indians have played a key role in Uganda’s politics as well.
He complimented the Indian Community for retaining its sense of Indian-ness, as reflected in the cultural performances on this occasion.
The Prime Minister asserted that all countries of Africa, including Uganda, are important for India.
He said that a shared history of struggle against colonialism, a large Indian diaspora, and common development challenges, are all reasons for this.
He said today India is among the fastest growing economies in the world.
He said India is now exporting cars and smartphones.
He said digital technology is becoming a means of empowerment for the people of India; and the country is emerging as an important centre for Startups.
The Prime Minister spoke of the importance of Africa in India’s foreign policy.
In this context, he mentioned the India-Africa Forum Summit in New Delhi in 2015.
He also mentioned other high level bilateral engagements between India and other African nations.
The Prime Minister mentioned other initiatives taken, such as projects with lines of credit worth more than 3 billion dollars; scholarships; and e-visa arrangements.
He said about half of all member nations of the International Solar Alliance are from Africa.
The Prime Minister said nations from Asia and Africa are playing a stronger role in the new world order.
