Dedicates Armoured Systems Complex in Hazira to the nation
Lays Foundation stone of a Cancer hospital at Navsari
The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicated L& T Armoured Systems Complex in Hazira to the nation today.
He also visited the Complex and showed keen interest in the innovative spirit behind the project.
Prime Minister also laid foundation stone of Nirali Cancer Hospital at Navsari.
It will benefit people of the region in accessing preventive and curative aspects of cancer treatment.
With this, PM has concluded his visit to Gujarat with Silvassa and Mumbai being the next destinations of the three day visit.
Day 1 of PM visit to Gujarat was marked by the inauguration of the flagship Global Trade Show at the Exhibition centre in the run up to Vibrant Gujarat Summit.
PM unveiled the state of art, super-speciality public hospital – Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Ahmedabad.
Addressing on the occasion, he said that in keeping up with its commitment towards equal opportunity for all and for the development – Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is the way forward for New India.
Inauguration of Ahmedabad Shopping Festival-2019 at the Sabarmati Riverfront by the PM was yet another attraction.
Speaking on the occasion, he said, the Government is constantly working to create a conducive environment for business in the country.
Day-2 of PM visit to Gujarat marked the beginning of three day long Vibrant Gujarat Summit-2019.
PM Modi inaugurated the 9th edition of the Summit at Mahatma Mandir Exhibition cum Convention Centre in Gandhinagar.
Addressing the Gathering on this occasion, he said doing business with India is a great opportunity.
During this period, bilateral interactions of PM with the visiting President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev, Prime Minister of Czech Republic Mr. Andrej Babis, Prime Minister of Malta Dr. Joseph Muscat and Prime Minister of Denmark Mr Lars Løkke Rasmussen was in the limelight on 18 January 2019.
It was followed by 3D laser projection show at Dandi Kutir in Gandhinagar, Gujarat.
Captains of industry announced a series of investment projects to mark the Vibrant Gujarat Summit.
