• PM calls for a paradigm shift in global attitudes towards climate change, from “carbon credit”, towards “green credit”
• PM: Global awareness on climate change is an opportunity to improve quality of life of citizens
• PM calls for consortium of nations with greatest solar energy potential
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today called for a paradigm shift in global attitudes towards climate change, from “carbon credit”, towards “green credit.”
Chairing a meeting of the Prime Minister`s Council on Climate Change, Shri Narendra Modi said that instead of focusing on emissions and cuts alone, focus should shift on what we have done for clean energy generation, energy conservation and energy efficiency, and what more can be done in these areas.
Shri Narendra Modi called for a careful evaluation of all the initiatives that have been taken by India in this regard.
These include, to mention some: initiatives in solar energy, wind energy, biomass energy, and transportation projects that have reduced distances or travel times.
The Prime Minister said India looks at the global concern and awareness on Climate Change, as a great opportunity for working towards improving the quality of life of its citizens, and making a positive contribution for mankind.
The Prime Minister emphasized India`s “sanskar” (traditions) and “soch” (thinking), where “prakriti prem” (love of nature) was imbibed among people from childhood.
The Prime Minister recalled his meeting with leaders of Pacific island nations in Fiji in November 2014, and the apprehension they had over the issue of climate change.
The Prime Minister called for a consortium of all nations who have the greatest solar energy potential.
He called upon them to join hands with India for innovation and cutting-edge research that would reduce the cost of solar energy, making it more accessible to people.
The Prime Minister called for a review of curricula in architecture and civil engineering colleges, to include energy efficient design in a big way.
The meeting was attended by Union Ministers Smt.
Sushma Swaraj, Shri Arun Jaitley, Shri Venkaiah Naidu, Ms. Uma Bharti, Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Shri Prakash Javadekar, and Shri Piyush Goyal.
The meeting was also attended by Shri R.K Pachauri, Shri Nitin Desai, Shri Ajay Mathur, Shri J.M. Mauskar, Shri Chandrashekhar Dasgupta and other members of the Council.
