PM looks forward to a meeting with coastal states to discuss infrastructure, coastal security, island development and tourism in an integrated, holistic manner.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today reviewed the progress of work towards achievement of targets in the connectivity-related infrastructure sectors of roads, railways, shipping and civil aviation.
The Prime Minister underlined that the development vision of various connectivity related infrastructure sectors should be inter-related and closely coordinated.
The Prime Minister said he looked forward to a special meeting with all coastal states to discuss the sectors of infrastructure, coastal security, island development, tourism, entertainment and biodiversity in an integrated, holistic manner.
The Prime Minister said that the Sagarmala project must lay stress on “port-led development” – which will include various connectivity elements including ports, international shipping, highways and rail connectivity.
Following the decision to allow 100 percent FDI in Railways, 20 projects in 10 sectors have been identified for FDI.
The Railways have also designed and fabricated a new wagon specifically for transport of salt, which will lead to a 40 percent increase in the carrying capacity.
Reviewing the civil aviation sector, the Prime Minister said that states should be made partners in working out and maintaining the viability of new international airports proposed to be set up within their territory.
The Prime Minister expressed satisfaction over the beginning of work at Pakyong Airport in Sikkim.
It was noted that with the beginning of the second route for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, and the thrust of Sikkim as an organic state, this airport would be able to cater to a huge demand for air services.
A new civil aviation policy is under preparation.
The Prime Minister, in the course of the meeting, repeatedly emphasized the need for faster inter-ministerial coordination and resolution of issues, and laid stress on achieving visible results in clear timeframes.
During the course of the review, the Prime Minister directed strict monitoring of projects, based on monthly completion targets.
Emphasizing that there is now no delay in decision-making at the highest level, the Prime Minister said it should now be possible to achieve all infrastructure targets.
He urged top officials to undertake cyber-visits of all major project locations at least once a month, so that they could keep track of the progress of work on a real-time basis.
