The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has conveyed best wishes to the Indian Cricket Team for ICC Cricket World Cup 2015.
”As the 2015 Cricket World Cup begins, my best wishes to the Indian Cricket Team. खेलो दिल से, वर्ल्ड कप लाओ फिर से!
My best wishes to captain cool @msdhoni.
Play hard, lead well make India proud.
Knowing you, I am sure you will.
I wish our flamboyant vice captain @imVkohli the very best for the upcoming campaign.
The entire nation has a lot of hopes on him.
Best wishes @SDhawan25!
Give India a wonderful start every time you step on the pitch.
Score many many runs, we are all there to cheer you.
The only batsman to score 2 double centuries in ODIs, @ImRo45`s talent has millions of fans.
Make us proud once again!
I wish you the very best my young friend @ajinkyarahane88.
Have a wonderful World Cup.
Make the most of this great opportunity.
Suresh Raina has always been agile on the field and hard-hitting with the bat.
Hit them out of the park, including the bouncers 🙂 @ImRaina
Have a great tournament @RayuduAmbati.
I am sure you will keep the runs coming and play a key role in the tournament.
Who is not a fan of Sir Jadeja?
We all look forward to seeing your all round performances take India to victory! @imjadeja
I am sure your spin blowing will surprise the batsman and give us victory.
Play well @Ashwinravi99!
My good wishes.
The young Axar Patel can trick the batsmen with his sharp spin and bounce.
Give your best and play without pressure!
Best of luck @BhuviOfficial!
Swing every match in our favour.
Your breakthroughs will determine how fast we will win those matches!
Our young fast bowler Mohit Sharma can bowl a great line and length.
He is a great asset to the team.
Best of luck.
I wish my young and extremely talented friend, Mohammed Shami the very best for the World Cup.
Play well and get those wickets.
Stuart Binny’s recent all round performances have impressed all.
We wish him all the best for the World Cup.
Good luck @y_umesh.
Bowl out the batsmen with your impressive speed and reverse swing.
I am sure your spin bowling will surprise the batsman and give us victory.
Play well @Ashwinravi99!
My good wishes”, the Prime Minister said.
