The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, dedicated the National Police Memorial to the nation, on Police Commemoration Day, today.
The Prime Minister announced an award in the name of Netaji Subash Chandra Bose, to honour the police and paramilitary personnel, involved in disaster response operations.
The award would be announced every year, recognizing the bravery and courage displayed in saving lives of people, in the wake of a disaster.
Shri Narendra Modi, laid wreath and paid homage to the martyrs at the National Police Memorial.
He honoured the three surviving members of Hot Springs incident.
He also inaugurated the Museum of National Police memorial and signed the visitor’s book.
Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister saluted the courage and sacrifice of policemen who laid down their lives for the service of the nation.
He recalled the sacrifices of the brave police personnel who fought valiantly at Hot Springs, Ladakh and paid respects to their family and loved ones.
Expressing happiness in dedicating the National Police Memorial, Prime Minister said that the Central Sculpture of the memorial represents capability, courage and service orientation of the police forces.
He added that every object associated with the National Police Memorial would inspire the citizens and educate them about the bravery of police and para military personnel.
He added the peace, security and prosperity presently enjoyed by the nation has been possible due to the sacrifices and consistent efforts of police,paramilitary and armed forces.Prime Minister also evoked the contributions and sacrifices of National Disaster Response Forces and State Disaster Response Forces.
Talking about the National Police Memorial, Prime Minister said that Memorial was accorded priority by the NDA Government and was finished on time.
He said that the memorial underlines the vision of the government to accord maximum respect to people who played a vital role in nation building.
Stressing on the importance of technology, Prime Minister urged the police forces to adopt technology and innovation in their daily discharge of duties.
In this context, Prime Minister mentioned about the Modernization of Police Forces Scheme (MPF), which ismodernizing the police forces through technology, modern communication systems and modern weapons.
Prime Minister said that police forces have a big role to play in strengthening the bond between police and society.
In this regard, Prime Minister urged the Police forces to make Police Stations more citizen friendly.
The National Police Memorial consists of Central Sculpture, a Wall of Valour-engraved with the names of police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty and a State of Art Museum dedicated to the memory of the martyred police personnel.
