30,000 houses for poor to be built under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Solapur
PM assures people of Assam and North East that their rights will be protected
Government’s drive against corruption and middlemen will continue: PM
10% reservation bill for general category poor is a historic step and a reflection of Government’s commitment for the poor, says PM
The Prime Minister has said that the constitutional amendment bill providing 10% reservation for general category poor is a historic step for the uplift of the poor and a reflection of the Government’s commitment to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.
Addressing a public rally in Solapur, Maharashtra today, he said that the passage of the bill by Lok sabha is a strong answer to those who were spreading falsehood in this regard and expressed hope that the bill will be passed by Rajya Sabha.
The Prime Minster said, “We have passed a historic bill to provide 10% reservation to Economically Weaker Sections of the General Category in Lok Sabha yesterday.
This has strengthened our resolve of Sab Ka Saath Sabka Vikas”
On the Citizenship Amendment Bill, the Prime Minister assured the people of Assam and North East that their rights and opportunities will be protected.
He said, “the bill has cleared the decks for grant of Indian citizenship to the sons and daughters of Mother India residing in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.
After seeing the ups and downs of history, these brothers and sisters of ours want to be a part and parcel of India.”
The Prime Minister said that his Government’s drive against corruption and middlemen will continue unabated despite the diatribes against him.
He said that he was performing his duty courageously in the fight against corruption and middlemen backed by the support and the blessings of the people..
The Prime Minister was addressing a public rally at Indira Gandhi Stadium in Solapur after launching and laying down foundation stones of several development projects for the region.
Prime Minister laid the foundation Stone of 30,000 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.
These will primarily benefit poor homeless people like rag pickers, rickshaw drivers, textile workers, beedi workers, etc at a total cost of Rs.1811.33 crores.
He said,”Today, we have inaugurated a project of 30000 homes meant for the family of poor, labourers.
The beneficiaries of this project are those who work in factories, pull rickshaws, drive auto, etc.
I ensure you that very soon you will have the keys of your home in your hands.”
The Prime Minister added that efforts have been made to make housing affordable for the middle class families.
Now they can save up to Rs. 6 lakhs on home loans over a period of 20 years which is a reflection of the measures undertaken by the Government for Ease of Living.
In keeping with his commitment that he inaugurates the projects for which foundation stone is laid by him, the Prime Minister dedicated to the nation, 98.717 kms long stretch of the New NH-52 which will help improve the connectivity of Solapur, with the important Marathwada region of Maharashtra.NH-52 is now a four laned section of Solapur – Tuljapur – OsmanabadHighway at an estimated cost of Rs.972.50 crores.PM had laid the foundation for this project in 2014.
NH-52 has road safety features like 2 major and 17 minor bridges, 4 vehicular and 10 pedestrian underpasses, besides one 3.4 km bypass at Tuljapur that will help decongest the city.
Highlighting the Government’s vision for expansion of highways for better connectivity and ease of living, the Prime Minister said, ”Over the past 4 years, nearly 40 thousand kilometers of national highways have been added; at a cost of around 5.5 lakh crore around 52 thousand kilometers of national highways are under construction.”:
Announcing a boost to rail connectivity for the region, the Prime Minister said, the government has approved Solapur-Osmanabad via Tuljapur rail line, at an estimated cost of Rs. 1000 crores.
He added that efforts are on to start flights from Solapur under the Regional Air connectivity scheme- Udan Yojana.
As a part of his vision of Swachh Bharat and Swastha Bharat, the Prime Minister dedicated to the nation Underground Sewerage System, and three Sewage Treatment Plants in Solapur.
This will increase the sewer coverage of the town and improve sanitation in the city.
The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone of the Combined Project of Improvement in Water Supply and Sewerage System, as part of Area Based Development in Solapur Smart City, Augmentation of Drinking Water Supply from Ujani Dam to Solapur City and Underground Sewerage System under AMRUT Mission.
It will bring significant improvement in service delivery and improve public health enabled by technology as a means to create smart outcomes for citizens.
It is expected that these measures will go a long way towards giving a major push to road and transport connectivity, water supply, sanitation, employment generation etc. for the people in Solapur and the adjoining areas.
