INS Kolkata is proof of India’s “Buddhi Bal” (intellectual capabilities)
India’s aim is to achieve such prowess in its defence capabilities, that no one dares to cast an evil glance at India.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today dedicated to the nation the indigenously designed warship INS Kolkata.
Addressing naval officers and sailors at the Naval Dockyard, Mumbai after commissioning the ship, the Prime Minister described INS Kolkata as proof of India’s “Buddhi Bal” (intellectual capabilities).
He said India’s aim is to achieve such prowess in its defence capabilities, that no one dares to cast an evil glance at India.
Shri Narendra Modi emphasized that with changing times, the importance of prowess which came out of “Buddhi Bal” (scientific and technical intelligence) is as important for the armed forces as physical prowess (Baahu Bal) The Prime Minister also described INS Kolkata as the biggest indigenous defence production.
“As we dedicate this ship to the nation, we display to the world, our buddhi bal and our manufacturing capabilities,” the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister remarked that being in Maharashtra, and talking about the Navy, one could not but remember Chhatrapati Shivaji, the great Maratha King, who conceived the navy as a means for securing India’s maritime trade interests.
The Prime Minister said that today, maritime security was a vital aspect of global trade, and India was playing its part in securing global trade.
He added that INS Kolkata is also a great communication platform, and will be useful in securing India’s trade interests at sea.
The Prime Minister mentioned the provisions made in the recent budget for defence offsets, and said the world’s best arms and equipment manufacturers would be invited to set up manufacturing facilities in India, and a day would come when India would be completely self-reliant in defence production.
The Prime Minister praised the valour of the Indian armed forces, and assured the jawans that the whole nation stood by them and was convinced that they would leave no stone unturned in defending the country.
The Defence Minister Shri Arun Jaitley congratulated the Navy on the commissioning of INS Kolkata.
The Governor of Maharashtra Shri K. Sankaranarayanan, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Prithviraj Chavan, the Chief of Army Staff Admiral R.K. Dhowan, the National Security Advisor Shri Ajit Doval, the Defence Secretary Shri R.K. Mathur, and senior officers of the Army, Navy and Air Force were present on the occasion.
The Prime Minister also visited various facilities onboard INS Kolkata and also wrote in the Visitor’s Book.
