The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today dedicated the naval submarine INS Kalvari to the nation, at a function in Mumbai.
Congratulating the people of India on this occasion, the Prime Minister described INS Kalvari as a prime example of “Make in India.”
He commended all those involved in its manufacture.
He described the submarine as an excellent illustration of the fast growing strategic partnership between India and France.
He said the INS Kalvari will add even more strength to the Indian Navy.
The Prime Minister said that the 21st century is described as Asia’s century.
He added that it is also certain that the road to development in the 21st century goes through the Indian Ocean.
That is why the Indian Ocean has a special place in the policies of the Government, he added.
The Prime Minister said this vision can be understood through the acronym SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region.
The Prime Minister said India is fully alert with regard to its global, strategic and economic interests in the Indian Ocean.
He said that is why the modern and multi-dimensional Indian Navy plays a leading role in promoting peace and stability in the region.
He said the ocean’s innate potential adds economic muscle to our national development.
That is why, he added, India is well aware of the challenges such as sea-borne terrorism, piracy, and drug trafficking, that not just India, but other nations in the region also have to face.
He said India is playing a key role in tackling these challenges.
He said India believes that the world is one family, and is fulfilling its global responsibilities.
India has played the role of “first responder” for its partner countries, in times of crisis, he added.
He said the human face of Indian diplomacy and Indian security establishment is our speciality.
He said a strong and capable India has a vital role to play for humanity.
He said countries of the world wish to walk with India on the path of peace and stability.
The Prime Minister said that the entire ecosystem related to defence and security has started to change in the last three years.
He said the skill-set accumulated during the manufacture of INS Kalvari is an asset for India.
The Prime Minister said that the Government’s commitment has ensured that the long pending issue of “One Rank One Pension” has been resolved.
The Prime Minister said that the Government’s policies and the bravery of the Armed Forces have ensured that the use of terrorism as a proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir has not been successful.
The Prime Minister expressed his gratitude to all those who have dedicated their lives to the nation’s security.
