The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended a Samajik Adhikarita Shivir for distribution of aids and assistive devices in Varanasi.
The distributed material included sewing machines, Braille kits, hearing aids, smart canes, and other smart devices.
The beneficiaries included differently abled persons and widows.
Speaking on the occasion, Shri Narendra Modi recalled his speech even before taking oath of office as Prime Minister, where he had mentioned that his Government would be devoted to the service of the poor and downtrodden.
He said the Union Government has taken a series of steps in this direction.
He said this camp in Varanasi is just one of about 1800 such camps that have been held across the country since his Government came to power.
This number, he asserted, was far greater than the comparable number in the case of previous governments.
He said these camps had eliminated middlemen from the activity of distribution of aids and assistive devices.
The Prime Minister said that he has been the target of personal attacks, because middlemen are being eliminated and governance is being tightened.
He said these personal attacks will not deter him from his path, which is the service of the poor and weaker sections of society.
The Prime Minister spoke at length about replacing the word “viklang” with “divyang” in everyday usage, to describe differently-abled people.
He said the focus should not be on disabilities, but on the extra-ordinary abilities that differently abled people are blessed with.
The Prime Minister spoke of his Government’s Sugamya Bharat campaign to provide easy accessibility to differently-abled people.
He complimented the Railways for the launch of the Mahamana Express with modern passenger amenities, which he flagged-off on the occasion.
The Prime Minister spoke about the bus accident involving some people who were coming to attend this event.
He said Ministers and officers had rushed to the hospital, and the injured would be well taken care of.
He also met some of the people with minor injuries, who had made it to the function nevertheless.
