The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, today dedicated the Bogibeel bridge in Assam, to the nation.
The bridge, which spans the River Brahmaputra between Dibrugarh and Dhemaji districts of Assam, is of immense economic and strategic significance for the nation.
At a massive public meeting in Kareng Chapori, on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra,the Prime Minister also flagged off the first passenger train passing through the bridge.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister paid homage to the famous Assamese singer Deepali Borthakur, who passed away recently.
He also paid homage to many other famous and historical figures from the State, who have brought laurels for the State and the country in various fields.
He greeted the people on the occasion of Christmas.
He said that today is the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and is also celebrated as “Sushaasan Divas” or “Good Governance Day”.
The Prime Minister said that for the last four and a half years, the Union Government has pursued the objective of good governance.
He said the dedication of the historic Bogibeel rail-cum-road bridge, is a symbol of this objective.
He said this bridge is a marvel of engineering and technology, and is of immense strategic significance.
He said this bridge reduces distances between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh.
He said it would greatly enhance “ease of living” in this region.
The Prime Minister said that this bridge had been a dream for the people of this region for generations, and is now a reality.
He said that Dibrugarh is an important centre of healthcare, education and commerce in the region, and the people living north of the Brahmaputra, can now access this city, more conveniently.
The Prime Minister appreciated all those involved in the construction of the bridge.
He recalled that in May 2017, he had also dedicated the country’s longest road bridge, the Bhupen Hazarika Bridge at Sadia in Assam, to the nation.
The Prime Minister noted that while only three bridges were built over the Brahmaputra river in 60-70 years, three more have been completed in the last four and a half years alone.
Another five, he said, are in progress.
He said this enhanced connectivity between the northern and southern banks of the Brahmaputra, is an element of good governance.
He said this pace of development will transform the North-East.
The Prime Minister spoke of the Union Government’s vision of Transformation through Transportation.
He said the infrastructure in the country is growing today at a rapid pace.
The Prime Minister complimented the State Government of Assam for its efforts towards completing pending projects.
He said almost 700 kilometres of National Highways have been completed in four and a half years.
He also mentioned several other connectivity related projects in the North-Eastern region.
He said that a strong and progressive Eastern India, is the key to a strong and progressive India.
Besides infrastructure, the Prime Minister mentioned several initiatives such as Ujjwala, and Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, which have seen rapid progress in Assam.
The Prime Minister said that today, the youth of the country, from the far-flung areas, is bringing laurels for India.
Mentioning the famous athlete of Assam, Hima Das, he said youth are now becoming symbols of the self-confidence of New India.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is making efforts to build infrastructure for India’s future needs.
