Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today delivered the Convocation Address at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences.
He exhorted the graduating students to treat patients with empathy, and to work towards eradication of superstition regarding mental illness in society.
The Prime Minister welcomed as special guests, poor school children from different schools in Bengaluru who were present at the Convocation.
He encouraged the students who were being awarded degrees today to interact with these children, saying this occasion could prove inspirational for them.
The Prime Minister urged the graduating students to keep in mind people from various sections of society who had contributed in any way, in their success.
He said they should always attempt to live and work for the benefit of the poor and underprivileged sections of society.
He said this was the way to find inner happiness – Swantah Sukhaaye.
The Prime Minister told the graduating students that they had made a conscience call, and answered an inner desire, in choosing this profession.
He said their task was tough, but he was confident that their education, and their spirit of service would help them accomplish what they had set out to do.
The Prime Minister said superstition often blocked proper treatment and cure for the mentally ill.
He said that the field of mental health faces the triple challenges of “अज्ञानता, अजागरूकता, अंधश्रद्धा”, i.e. lack of knowledge, lack of awareness, and superstition.
He also said that people have to understand that mental illness can be treated, and is curable scientifically.
The Prime Minister said that along with skill and education, a certain empathy was also required from doctors, while treating patients suffering from mental ailments.
The Prime Minister congratulated all the award winners and graduating students.
Union Ministers Shri Sadananda Gowda, Shri Ananth Kumar and Shri J. P. Nadda, Governor of Karnataka Shri Vajubhai Vala and Chief Minister of Karnataka Shri Siddaramiah, were present on the occasion.
The Prime Minister inaugurated the MR-PET Centre at NIMHANS.
