Dandi memorial encapsulates the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi’s Agrah, Swatchagrah and Satyagraha, says the PM
Gramuday to Bharatuday is the mission and idea: PM
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicated the National Salt Satyagraha Memorial at Dandi in Navsari district, Gujarat to the nation today on Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary.
At the memorial site, he also unveiled statues of Mahatma Gandhi and 80 Satyagrahis who had marched with him during the historic Dandi Salt March in 1930 to make salt from sea water against the British law.
The memorial also has 24-narrative murals depicting various events and stories from the historic 1930 Salt March.
Solar trees are installed to meet the energy requirements of the memorial complex.
The PM took a round through the memorial.
Addressing a public meeting, the PM congratulated everyone who has worked for the memorial.
PM said “this memorial reminds us of the great sacrifices of the people of our country for the cause of freedom”.
The PM added, the Dandi memorial encapsulates the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi- Agrah for Swadeshi, Swatchagrah and Satyagraha and it will be a major attraction for the tourists in the coming days.
The PM said, “ In an effort to carry forward the legacy of Gandhiji, our government has modernised around 2000 institutions related to khadi.
It has benefitted lakhs of craftsmen and workers.
Khadi is now not only a fashion statement but a symbol of women empowerment as well”.
Swadeshi played an immensely important role in freedom struggle, likewise, handlooms will be instrumental in overcoming poverty.
The government has declared 7th of August to be celebrated as Handlooms Day, every year to promote handlooms, the PM added.
Underlining the importance laid by Gandhi jee for Swachchata, PM said we have imbibed those values fro a clean India.
The impact of Swachcha Bharat Abhiyan is that the cleanliness in rural area has increased from just 38 per cent in 2014 to 98 per cent now with the NDA Government in power.
Reiterating his endeavour to bring basic amenities to the villages from clean cooking fuel to electricity and healthcare to financial services, PM said it is in line with our mission and the idea of ‘Gramuday to Bharatuday’.
The PM is on a day-long visit to Gujarat.
Earlier in the day, PM laid the foundation stone for extension of Terminal Building of Surat Airport and inaugurated various developmental projects in Surat.
He has also dedicated state of the art Rasilaben Sevantilal Venus Hospital, Surat to the nation.
PM also addressed New India Youth Conclave in Surat.
