The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Chhattisgarh today.
At Janjgir-Champa, he visited an exhibition on traditional handloom and agriculture.
He laid the foundation stone for national highway projects, and the Pendra-Anuppur 3rd railway line.
The Prime Minister also handed over certificates etc to select beneficiaries of various welfare schemes of the Union and State Governments.
Addressing a large Kisan Sammelan, the Prime Minister recalled former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who, he said, had created three new States – Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.
It is due to his vision of development that all these states are progressing rapidly, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister asserted that the Union Government is devoted to development and wants to fulfil the aspirations of people.
We want to enhance ease of living for the people, the Prime Minister said.
Shri Narendra Modi said that the Government does not believe in making schemes for a vote-bank, or schemes to win elections.
He said that the aim is to create a new, modern Chhattisgarh.
We are moving ahead with the mission of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, the Prime Minister said, adding that the Union Government is working hard to ensure that farmers benefit through value addition.
Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana is helping farmers in this mission, the Prime Minister said.
Through technological interventions, the welfare of farmers is being ensured, the Prime Minister said, adding that measures like Soil Health Cards and Fasal Bima Yojana are benefiting the farmers immensely.
The Prime Minister recalled that there was once a time when only a select few got the benefits of welfare schemes, and corruption had ruined the governance system.
We are committed to development for all, the Prime Minister asserted, noting that the Union Government wants to ensure a roof over every head by 2022.
The Prime Minister said that the task of constructing toilets was undertaken in mission mode.
Cooking gas connections were given to the poor under Ujjwala Yojana, and now, through Saubhagya Yojana, electricity connections are being ensured in every home, he added.
