• Launches Integrated Power Development Scheme.
• Lays Foundation Stone for road and power projects.
• Dedicates Trauma Centre, BHU to the Nation.
• Inaugurates Passenger Reservation Facility at Ramnagar Post Office.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today launched the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) from Varanasi.
He also laid the Foundation Stone for road and power projects and dedicated to the nation (via remote) the Trauma Centre at Banaras Hindu University.
He inaugurated a Passenger Reservation Facility at Ramnagar Post Office (via remote).
The Prime Minister remarked that the city of Varanasi, which had for long, given the light of knowledge (Gyaan Prakash) to India was now symbolically giving the light of energy (Urja Prakash) to India, as IPDS was being launched nationwide today from Varanasi.
He said the various elements of today’s function including road, power, and health projects, were all aimed at development, and facilitating pilgrims and tourists.
The Prime Minister said the antiquated electricity network of Varanasi would be completely rejuvenated through IPDS, in keeping with the stature of this heritage city.
He said this issue would be resolved across urban India through the IPDS.
The Prime Minister spoke of the need to fulfil the dreams of the freedom fighters by the 75th year of independence in 2022.
He said one of the key elements towards fulfilling their vision of India would be to provide electricity for all, at all times, across India.
He asked the people of Varanasi to bless him for this mission.
The Prime Minister said the youth of Varanasi, including women, had responded to his call of Swachh Bharat, and it was beginning to reflect on the Ghats of the city.
Referring to the ongoing issues of Shiksha Mitras in the state of Uttar Pradesh, the Prime Minister urged them to keep courage, and added that once the relevant court order was available, he would himself discuss the matter with the Uttar Pradesh government in his capacity as an MP.
The Prime Minister said that in addition to the public sector and private sector, the ‘personal’ sector, including small and medium entrepreneurs, was an important engine of economic growth and employment, and therefore he was focusing on it through initiatives such as Mudra Bank and skill development.
The Governor of Uttar Pradesh Shri Ram Naik and Union MoS (Independent Charge) for Power Shri Piyush Goyal were present on the occasion.
