Foundation stone of the new AIIMS at Vijaipur , Samba in Jammu laid by PM
500 more seats to added in J&K Medical colleges soon, says PM
624 MW Kiru Hydroelectric project and 850 Megawatt Ratle Hydro Electric project in Kishtwar inaugurated
New power projects in J&K region will provide employment to youth: PM
Multiple development projects in Jammu region unveiled today
In the second leg of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi visited Jammu today.
He unveiled a series of development projects to give a boost to infrastructure in the state.
PM is on a day long visit to Leh, Jammu and Srinagar today.
Jammu visit was marked by the PM laying the foundation stone of AIIMS at Vijaypur, Samba.
Mr. Modi said that the setting up of AIIMS will provide quality healthcare to the people and address the shortfall of healthcare professionals in the region.
PM announced that another 500 seats in the state medical colleges would be added soon.
While inaugurating University Institute of Engineering & Technology, Kathua today , PM expressed his happiness that the youths from Jammu will benefit from the 10% EWS Quota.
He also laid the foundation stone for the construction of Northern Regional Centre Campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication at Jammu.
The campus Tmat Jammu was setup in the academic year 2012-13 and is working from a temporary building since then.
PM laid foundation stone for 624 MW Kiru Hydroelectric project and 850 Megawatt Ratle Hydro Electric project in Kishtwar, Jammu.
He said, “New power projects in region will provide employment to youth”.
PM also declared 100% electrification of households in the Jammu and Kashmir under SAUBHAGYA Scheme.
The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for construction of Transit accomodation for Kashmiri migrant employees in Kashmir valley.
He announced that the work is afoot to employ displaced Kashmiris in 3000 posts.
He said “India will not forget the circumstances in which the Pandits had to leave their homes.”
The country must stand with those being persecuted in the neighbouring countries, he added.
PM laid foundation stone of the project aimed at reducing pollution of Rivers Devika & Tawi under the National River Conservation Plan (NRCP).
This project is scheduled for completion by March 2021.
PM told that 14000 bunkers have been built along the border for the safety of our soldiers.
He added that while the previous Government tried to hoodwink OROP with a grant of Rs.500 Crore, we have allotted Rs.35000 Crore.
Had former rulers been proactive Kartarpur Sahib would have been part of India, he added.
Another highlight of visit to Jammu today was PM laying the foundation stone of 1640 m span double lane bridge over River Chenab at Sajwal.
It will provide an alternative route for the population of Sajwal and Indri Pattian which will reduce the commuting distance from 47kms to 5kms between the two.
During the event PM said that Rs.40000 Crore has been sanctioned to improve the connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir.
