The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Imphal today.
At a large public meeting, he inaugurated the Integrated Check Post at Moreh.
He also inaugurated the Dolaithabi Barrage Project, the FCI Food Storage Godown at Sawombung, and projects related to water supply and tourism.
He dedicated to the nation the 400 kV Double Circuit Silchar-Imphal Line.
He also laid the foundation stone for sports projects.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister paid homage to the brave freedom fighters, especially the women freedom fighters of Manipur.
He recalled that undivided India’s first interim government had been established at Moirang in Manipur.
He also recalled the support that the Azad Hind Fauj had received from people in the North East.
He said Manipur has an important role to play in New India’s growth story.
The Prime Minister said that projects worth over Rs. 1500 crore have either been inaugurated, or the foundation stone has been laid for them, at today’s event.
He said these projects are going to improve “ease of living” for the people of the State.
He said he has himself visited the North-East, about thirty times in the last four and a half years.
He said the North East is being transformed, and projects stuck for decades are being completed.
He said the Integrated Check Post at Moreh will facilitate custom clearance, foreign currency exchange, immigration clearance etc.
He said that the projects being inaugurated today reflect the Union Government’s commitment to development.
He said the Dolaithabi Barrage project had been conceived in 1987, but was speeded up only after 2014, and is now complete.
He also mentioned the tourism projects being inaugurated today.
Elaborating on the more energetic and purposeful approach to project completion in the Union Government, the Prime Minister explained how the PRAGATI system set up in the Prime Minister’s Office enables monitoring of stalled projects through video conferencing.
He said that these PRAGATI meetings have so far resolved issues related to stalled projects worth nearly 12 lakh crore rupees.
He said that work on the FCI godown in Sawombung had begun in December 2016, and it has been completed already.
He gave similar illustrations for various water supply projects.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government and the State Government of Manipur are both working with the vision of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas.
He praised the “Go to hills, go to villages” programme of the State Government.
The Prime Minister explained how better road rail and air connectivity is being provided to the North East, with the overall vision of “Transformation through Transportation.”
The Prime Minister mentioned the progress made by Manipur in other sectors such as Swachh Bharat, sanitation, and development of the aspirational district of Chandel.
The Prime Minister said Manipur has also been a front-runner in the field of women empowerment.
Mentioning the sporting icon Marykom, who hails from Manipur, the Prime Minister said that the North-East has a key role to play in making India a sports superpower.
He said transparency in training and selection of athletes is reflecting in better performances by India in international sporting competitions.
