The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today dedicated the Mohanpura Project to the Nation.
This project will facilitate irrigation of agricultural land in Rajgarh district.
It will also provide drinking water to villages in the area.
The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone of various drinking water schemes.
Addressing a large public gathering at Mohanpura, the Prime Minister paid homage to Dr. Syama Prasad Mukherjee on his death anniversary.
He recalled Dr. Mukherjee’s message that a Nation can be secured only through its own energy and efforts.
He recalled Dr. Syama Prasad Mukherjee’s contributions in various fields such as industrial policy, education, and women empowerment.
He said Dr. Mukherjee placed the highest emphasis on education, health and security.
He said the schemes of the Union Government such as Skill India Mission, Start Up India, Mudra Yojana, and Make in India, all have elements of Dr. Mukherjee’s vision.
The Prime Minister said that Rajgarh district is among the Aspirational Districts identified by the Government, and development work will now be speeded up here.
He said the Union Government, keeping in mind the needs of the country, placing faith in its capabilities, is working towards taking India to new heights in the 21st century.
He appreciated the Government of Madhya Pradesh, for the work done by it in the agriculture sector, and for its development initiatives.
He praised the State Government for the increase in irrigated area in the State.
He said the Union Government will walk shoulder to shoulder with the State Government in supporting the irrigation targets of the State.
He said 14 projects are also being implemented in the State under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana.
He added that emphasis is also being given to micro-irrigation.
The Prime Minister mentioned various initiatives being taken by the Union Government for the agricultural sector, such as soil health cards,FasalBimaYojana, e-NAM etc.
He also spoke of the benefits of the Ujjwala Yojana and the Mudra Yojana.
