•Receives blessings from Mother Hira Ba at Gandhinagar
•Unveils schemes for tribal development at Limkheda
•Distributes aids and assistive devices to Divyang at Navsari
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, was in Gujarat today.
Early this morning, he visited his Mother, Hira Ba, at Gandhinagar, to take her blessings.
The President, the Vice President, and Former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh were among the large number of leaders who greeted the Prime Minister on telephone.
The Chief Justice of India, Shri T.S. Thakur, who was also in Gandhinagar today, visited Raj Bhawan to greet the Prime Minister on his birthday.
The Prime Minister has been receiving greetings from a cross-section of society, through social media, and the Narendra Modi App.
The Prime Minister addressed a large gathering at Limkheda in Dahod district, after unveiling a number of schemes for tribal welfare.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that water supply was a major challenge for the State of Gujarat, but that challenge has been successfully overcome.
Recalling his pledge that his Government would be a Government committed to the welfare of the poor and the marginalized, the Prime Minister said that the mantra of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” is now resonating all over.
The Prime Minister attended a function for the distribution of aids and assistive devices to Divyang at Navsari.
Mentioning the records that have been established today, through the sheer scale of this event, the Prime Minister congratulated Navsari for this feat.
The Prime Minister said that Navsari had earlier made a mark for interest in reading, and today it has distinguished itself by the care shown towards Divyangs.
The Prime Minister said that the time for phrases like ‘Chalta Hai’ is history; the world has expectations from India and we cannot let this opportunity go.
He said that the Accessible India Campaign is aimed at focusing attention on areas where we may not have devoted much attention before.
