Meets UN Secretary General.
Meets leaders of South Asian neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today met the Secretary General of the United Nations, Ban Ki Moon.
During the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of involving Nations which contribute troops to UN peacekeeping missions, in the decision-making process.
He also emphasized the urgent need for UN reform, as the organization approaches its 70th anniversary.
The Prime Minister had bilateral meetings with President Mahinda Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh and Prime Minister Sushil Koirala of Nepal.
They all congratulated the Prime Minister on his speech at the UNGA.
They also supported the Prime Minister’s initiative for an International Yoga Day.
The Sri Lankan President has given a letter of support in this regard.
They also said they looked forward to receiving Shri Narendra Modi in their respective countries.
They congratulated India on the success of the Mars mission, and thanked the Prime Minister for his initiative of a SAARC satellite.
In his discussions with President Mahinda Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka, the Prime Minister raised the issue of fishermen in Sri Lankan custody.
The Prime Minister emphasized that this is a humanitarian issue and should be handled with sensitivity.
He also referred to his recent meeting with a delegation of the Tamil National Alliance, and said he had mentioned to them that dialogue is the best way forward.
The Teesta waters issue and the land boundary agreement came up for discussion during the meeting with the Prime Minister of Bangladesh.
Shri Narendra Modi said that the matter of the Land Boundary Agreement was already with a Parliamentary committee.
Regarding Teesta, the Prime Minister said an effort was being made to evolve a consensus.
The Prime Minister thanked the Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for allowing transit of foodgrains to the northeast, and assured her that India would be willing to assist in any specific infrastructure projects required in this regard.
In the meeting with the Prime Minister of Nepal, the focus was on implementation of decisions taken during the Prime Minister’s recent visit.
The two sides expressed satisfaction over the progress made.
