The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today interacted with the beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojna and other Central Government health care schemes from across the country, through video bridge.
This is the fifth interaction in the series by the Prime Minister through video bridge with various beneficiaries of Government schemes.
Explaining the importance of healthcare and wellness, Prime Minister said that health is the basis for all success and prosperity.
He added that that India would become great and healthy only when its 125 crore citizens are healthy.
Interacting with the beneficiaries, Shri Modi said that illness not only creates a huge financial burden on families, especially poor and middle class, but also affects our socio economic sectors.
Hence, it is the endeavour of the government to ensure affordable healthcare to every citizen.
Prime Minister added that Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojna was launched with this intention so that poor, lower middle class and middle class get access to affordable medicines and their financial burden is reduced.
Government has opened more than 3600 Jan Aushadhi Kendras all over the country, where more than 700 generic medicines are available at affordable price.
The cost of medicines at Jan Aushadhi Kendras are 50-90% less than the market price, Prime Minister said and added that the number of Jan Aushadhi Kendras will reach over 5000 in the near future.
Talking about health stents, Prime Minister Shri Modi said that earlier citizens had to sell or mortgage property to purchase health stents.
He added that, the government has reduced the prices of stents substantially to help poor and middle class.
The cost of heart stents have reduced from around Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 29000.
During the interaction, Shri Narendra Modi said that the Government has reduced knee transplant prices by 60 – 70%, thereby bringing down the cost from Rs. 2.5 lakh to around Rs.70, 000 – 80,000.
It is estimated that around 1 to 1.5 lakh knee operations happen in India every year.
On that account, the reduction in knee transplant prices has saved close to Rs.1500 crore for public.
Through Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Dialysis Program, Government has performed more than 22 lakh dialysis sessions for 2.25 lakh patients in more than 500 districts.
More than 3.15crore children and 80 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinatedin 528 districts through Mission Indradhanush.
In order to ensure more beds, more hospitals and more doctors, Government has opened 92 medical colleges and increased MBBS seats by 15000.
Prime Minister said that to make healthcare affordable and accessible, Government launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme.
Under Ayushman Bharat, 10 crore families will be covered with health insurance of Rs. 5 lakh.
Talking about ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’, Prime Minister said that the scheme is playing a central role in creating a healthy India.
Due to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, there are now 3.5 lakh open defecation free villages in India and the sanitation coverage has increased by 38%.
Interacting with the Prime Minister, beneficiaries explained how Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojna brought down the cost of the medicines and made it affordable.
Beneficiaries also talked about how reduced prices of heart stent and knee transplants have changed their life.
Prime Minister also appealed to the public to take up Yoga, make it part of life style and thereby help in building a healthy nation.
