The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Baripada, in Odisha today.
He unveiled a digital plaque to mark the commencement of work for conservation and development of Rasika Ray Temple, and Excavated Structure at Ancient Fort Haripurgarh.
He laid the Foundation Stone for three National Highway projects.
He dedicated to the nation, the Balasore-Haldia-Durgapur section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline of IOCL.
He also inaugurated the Multi Modal Logistic Park at Balasore, and six Passport Sewa Kendras.
He also flagged off the second passenger train from Tatanagar to Badampahar.
Addressing the gathering, he said the total worth of projects inaugurated, or for which the Foundation Stone was laid today, is over Rs. 4000 crore.
He said the Union Government is focusing on infrastructure development, which will make a fundamental difference in the lives of the common man.
He said the Balasore-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline, will ensure easy supply of LPG in parts of Odisha and West Bengal, saving transportation cost and time.
He emphasized the importance of connectivity, in the 21st century.
He said unprecedented investment is being made in the creation of modern infrastructure and connectivity in India.
He said that emphasis is on road, rail and air connectivity, even in Odisha.
He said enhanced rail connectivity will facilitate movement of people and make mineral resources more accessible to industry.
The Prime Minister said that the maximum benefit of enhanced infrastructure will be for the middle class, and the medium enterprises of the country.
He said modern roads, clean trains and economical air travel, all contribute to ease of living for the middle class.
The Prime Minister said that in the last four and a half years, the Union Government has attempted to reduce the difficulty faced by people in obtaining passports.
He said that the six Passport Sewa Kendras being inaugurated today, are a step in this direction.
He described this as another effort towards “ease of living.”
The Prime Minister said that the Government has also been making efforts at conserving the rich cultural heritage of the country.
He said sites related to faith, spirituality and history; along with the knowledge of Yoga and Ayurveda, are being actively publicized and promoted.
In this context he mentioned the commencement of work today, for the Rasika Ray Temple, and the Excavated Structure at Ancient Fort Haripurgarh.
He said such efforts by the Government are helping boost tourism.
