Lays Foundation Stone for new Capital city of Andhra Pradesh.
Inaugurates Garuda Terminal at Tirupati Airport.
Lays Foundation Stone of mobile manufacturing hub at Tirupati.
May there be peace, unity and harmony in the country, PM says, after offering prayers at Tirumala Temple, Tirupati.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today attended the ceremony to mark the laying of the Foundation Stone for the new Capital city of Andhra Pradesh at Amaravathi.
He unveiled a plaque to mark the occasion.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister declared that the Union Government will fulfil all commitments made to the State in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act.
The Prime Minister appreciated the zeal with which Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Shri Chandrababu Naidu has taken up the work of the new Capital city, and made an effort to imbibe the best practices from across the world for this task.
He said urbanization should be seen as an opportunity, and not a challenge.
He hoped that Amaravathi would become a model for cities across the country.
The Prime Minister expressed happiness that the Chief Minister of Telangana, Shri K Chandrasekar Rao had been specially invited and was attending this event.
He said that for the people of both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, their soul is Telugu, and hoped that both states would progress speedily.
The Prime Minister spoke of the joint efforts of the Union and State Governments for human resource development in Andhra Pradesh.
He hoped that the State would emerge as one of the leaders in the “Start-Up” space.
“I too have got water and soil like all of you,” the Prime Minister told the assembled gathering.
He mentioned that he had brought water from the Yamuna river and soil from the Parliament House premises, for the new Capital city.
He said this was in a way, symbolic of the nation’s capital moving to Amaravathi.
The Prime Minister inaugurated the Garuda Terminal at Tirupati airport.
He said the Union Government was working to boost the Tourism sector, through better infrastructure, and other facilitation initiatives.
The Prime Minister laid the Foundation Stone of the Sri Venkateswara Mobile and Electronics Hub at Tirupati.
Shri Narendra Modi offered prayers at the Tirumala Temple at Tirupati.
“May there be peace, unity and harmony in the country.
May we succeed in eliminating poverty.
May Lord Balaji bless the country for happiness and prosperity, in the common man’s life,” the Prime Minister said.
