The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh today.
He released a commemorative postage stamp on Maharaja Suheldev.
He also laid the Foundation Stone of a Medical College in Ghazipur.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that the projects being unveiled at various events today, would go a long way in making Poorvanchal a medical hub, and a centre for research in agriculture.
The Prime Minister recalled Maharaja Suheldev, as a brave warrior, and a hero who inspires the people.
He spoke of the martial and strategic prowess, and administrative skills of Maharaja Suheldev.
The Prime Minister said the Union Government is determined to preserve the legacy of all those who contributed to the cause of India’s defence and security, and to its social life.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government and the State Government in Uttar Pradesh, are both sensitive to the concerns of the people.
He said the mission is to ensure a life of dignity for everyone.
The Prime Minister said that the medical college for which the Foundation Stone has been laid will provide the region with modern healthcare amenities.
He said this has been a long standing demand of the people of this region, and it shall soon become a reality.
He said this is one of many important hospitals that are being set up to improve healthcare facilities in the region.
In this context, he also mentioned hospitals that are coming up in Gorakhpur and Varanasi.
The Prime Minister said that healthcare is receiving this magnitude of attention from the Union Government, for the first time since independence.
He mentioned the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, and treatment being offered to patients.
He said that in just 100 days, over 6 lakh people had benefited from the Pradhan Mantri Jan ArogyaYojana.
The Prime Minister also mentioned the insurance schemes launched by the Union Government, and said 20 crore people across the country have joined the JeevanJyoti, or Suraksha Beema schemes.
The Prime Minister mentioned several projects in the region, which are associated with agriculture.
These include the International Rice Research Institute in Varanasi, cargo centres in Varanasi and Ghazipur, fertilizer plant in Gorakhpur, and Bansagar irrigation project.
He said such initiatives will benefit farmers and help improve their incomes.
The Prime Minister emphasized that steps taken only for immediate political gain, do not help solve the country’s problems.
He said the Union Government has fixed MSP of 22 crops based on 1.5 times the cost.
He mentioned various other initiatives taken for the agriculture sector.
Speaking of connectivity related progress, the Prime Minister said that work is in full swing for the Poorvanchal Expressway.
He said work is progressing on the Tarighat-Ghazipur-Mau bridge.
He said the recently opened waterway between Varanasi and Kolkata would also benefit Ghazipur.
He said these projects would boost trade and commerce in the region.
