Lays foundation stone for four laning of Solapur – Maharashtra / Karnataka Border Section of NH-9.
Outlines comprehensive vision for nationwide connectivity through roads, power transmission lines, gas and power grids.
Fervent appeal to students: Initiate a movement to reduce electricity bill of your family.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today outlined a comprehensive vision for new modes of infrastructure development in the country, which would include nationwide connectivity networks of roads, power transmission lines, gas grids and water grids.
In a function at Solapur, the Prime Minister dedicated to the nation 765 kV Solapur – Raichur transmission lines, and four laning of Pune – Solapur section of NH-9.
The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone for four laning of Solapur – Maharashtra / Karnataka Border Section of NH-9.
Giving the example of South Korea, the Prime Minister said across the world, countries which had invested in infrastructure creation, had reaped the fruits of development and prosperity.
He asserted that roads and highways development will be given priority by the new Government, drawing inspiration from the Golden Quadrilateral and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana launched by former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
The Prime Minister shared the concern expressed by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Prithviraj Chavan, over power plants being idle due to shortage of coal and gas.
He, however, added that he had been raising this concern as Chief Minister of Gujarat.
He said the Union Government would do all it could to ensure enough fuel for power plants.
Coal would be extracted in a way that did not harm the environment.
The Prime Minister called upon students to take the lead in a nationwide movement to reduce electricity bills of their family.
This too would be a form of service to the nation, he added.
Students should exhort all family members to join in this movement, he said.
The Prime Minister referred to the Union Government`s decision to grant permission to raise the height of the Narmada Dam.
He said this decision had been pending for years, and the new Government had taken a decision on it soon after assuming office.
He said once this project is completed, Maharashtra would get electricity worth Rs. 400 crore, free, every year.
Greeting the people of Solapur who had gathered in large numbers for the function, the Prime Minister assured them that he would return the gift of their love through development.
He said Solapur was a well established centre for textile industry, and revitalization of this industry was among the priorities of the Union Government.
Union Ministers Shri Nitin Gadkari and Shri Piyush Goyal, and the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Prirhviraj Chavan also spoke on the occasion.
