The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today inaugurated a new metro link between Noida and Delhi.
He unveiled a plaque at Botanical Garden Metro Station, to mark the inauguration of a portion of the Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro, connecting Botanical Garden in Noida with Kalkaji Mandir in South Delhi.
He also travelled briefly on the metro train, before arriving at the venue for the public meeting.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister conveyed greetings on the occasion of Christmas.
He also noted that the day marks the birthdays of two Bharat Ratnas – Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya, and Former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
He said that it is due to the people of Uttar Pradesh that the nation has got a strong and stable Government.
He added that he would always remain grateful to the people of Uttar Pradesh for their affection.
We live in an era in which connectivity is all-important, he said, adding that just inaugurated metro line would serve not just the present, but also future generations.
He said that by 2022, when we mark 75 years of freedom, he dreams that we live in an India in which our petrol imports reduce.
In order to achieve this, he added, state-of-the-art mass transit systems are the need of the hour.
Noting that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji took a ride on the Delhi Metro in December 2002, Shri Narendra Modi said that since then, the metro network in the National Capital Region has expanded considerably.
The Prime Minister asserted that governance cannot happen when the dominant thought process begins at ‘Mera Kya’ and ends at ‘Mujhe Kya.’
He said that these mindsets are now being changed.
He added that for the Union Government, decisions are about national interest and not political gains.
The Prime Minister said that earlier Governments took pride in making new laws.
He said the current Government wishes to be the Government that removes obsolete laws.
Good governance cannot happen when outdated laws hamper decision-making, he added.
The Prime Minister congratulated the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, and said his focus on good governance is taking the State to new heights.
He credited him with ending the superstition associated with Noida, by coming to this city.
If anybody thinks that not going to a place will prolong their CM tenure and visiting a place will curtail it, such a person does not deserve to be a Chief Minister, the Prime Minister asserted.
The Prime Minister also touched upon the work being done on railway infrastructure, expanding road network, and strides in the renewable energy sector.
He described Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji as ‘Bharat Marg Vidhata,’ and said he has shown us the way towards development.
Earlier, in his speech, the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and said the Prime Minister has given a new meaning to politics of this nation.
He added that the Prime Minister always says that we have to move ahead on the path of development.
