PM: Union Government is committed to boosting the agricultural economy through value addition and infrastructure creation.
PM: Centre and States must work as a team for India to progress.
India’s federal structure will be followed in letter and spirit.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said the Union Government was committed to boosting the agricultural economy and empowering the farmers by facilitating value addition through creation of appropriate infrastructure, including rural connectivity, storage and warehousing.
He was addressing a large gathering at Tumkur in Karnataka, after inaugurating the India Food Park.
Speaking about this project, the Prime Minister said it will fulfil the vision of “Annam Brahma” – Food is God.
He said his Government is committed to ensuring that as the farmer provides food for all, he should also get good income for his produce.
(Kisan hamaare pet bhi bhare.
Kisan Ki jeb bhi bhare).
The Prime Minister said value addition in agriculture and food products is not new to India.
In a number of illustrations, the Prime Minister mentioned Sattu, Ghee, Jaggery (Gud), Pickle and even recalled how the ancient sea trade route between India and Europe was referred to the Spice Trade Route.
The Prime Minister said that if India is to progress, the Centre and States have to work together as a team for country to progress.
He said India can be strong and developed only if its states are strong and developed.
The Prime Minister said central schemes will have to be implemented by both the Centre and the State working together.
Shri Narendra Modi said he will follow India’s federal structure in letter and spirit.
Speaking of India Food Park, he said this project had a combination of Central, State and Private Sector Partnership.
He said his Government will boost infrastructure facilities required for the agriculture and food processing sector through Public-Private Partnership.
The Governor of Karnataka, Shri Vajubhai Vala, the Chief Minister of Karnataka Shri Siddaramaiah, and Union Ministers Shri Ananth Kumar, Shri Sadanand Gowda and Ms. Harsimrat Kaur Badal were present on the occasion.
