Government will give a befitting reply to terrorism , says PM in Srinagar
Foundation stone of New AIIMS at Awantipora laid by PM
Development projects worth Rs. 6000 crores unveiled in Srinagar
First rural BPO inaugurated at Bandipora by PM
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that the country will give a befitting reply to those who are trying to foment terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir.
Addressing a gathering in Srinagar today, he said, ”We will tackle every terrorist in a befitting way.
We will break the backbone of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and fight it with all our might.”
PM paid glowing tributes to the martyr Nazir Ahmad Wani, who laid down his life fighting against the terrorists.
He said, “ My tribute to martyr Nazir Ahmad Wani and all other brave soldiers who laid down their lives for the nation and peace.
Nazir Ahmad Wani was awarded Ashok Chakra.
His valour and courage shows the way to youth of Jammu and Kashmir and the entire nation to live for the country.”
PM interacted with the newly elected Sarpanches.
He said that he was glad that local body election was held after so many years in the state.
He complimented the people of the state for coming out to vote despite a fragile environment and said it shows their faith in democracy and the urge for the development of the state.
Outlining his priorities for all round development of the state, PM said, “I have come here to inaugurate Rs.6000 crore worth projects.
All these projects are to make life easier for people around Srinagar.”
The Prime Minister unveiled a series of development projects for Jammu and Kashmir in Srinagar.
He laid the foundation stone of AIIMS, Awantipora in Pulwama.
It is aimed at improving the health infrastructure in the state.
It will be linked with the Ayushman Bharat – World’s largest healthcare scheme, through which around 10 lakh people have benefitted since launch.
This scheme covers around 30 lakh people from Jammu Kashmir alone.
The first rural BPO at Bandipora was inaugurated by the PM on this occasion.
It will enhance employment opportunities for the youth in Bandipora and neighbouring districts.
PM said the Bandipora rural BPO will open up a window of opportunity for the youth in the region.
PM said that his Government would give full security to the Kashmiri migrants who want to come back and lead life here.
Around 700 transit flats are being built to provide Transit accommodation for Kashmiri migrant employees.
Work is afoot to employ displaced Kashmiris in 3000 posts, he added.
PM interacted with the college students from different parts if the country on this occasion.
Digital Launch of various projects under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) by the press of button by PM was another attraction.
PM Laid the foundation stone of 3 Model Degree Colleges in J&K, at Kishtwar, Kupwara and Baramulla.
He also laid foundation stone of Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub in University of Jammu.
400 KV D/C Jalandhar-Samba-Rajouri- Shopian-Amargarh(Sopore) transmission lane was launched by PM as well.
The project has augmented the grid connectivity in Jammu & Kashmir.
Addressing a gathering on the occasion, he said that in the previous Government many big projects were inaugurated from Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi.
But NDA Government has made a point to inaugurate the projects from different regions.
He said, “Our government started the Ayushman Bharat scheme from Jharkhand, the Ujjwala scheme started with the UP, Prime Minister’s security insurance scheme started from West Bengal, the handloom campaign started from Tamil Nadu, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao started from Haryana.”
He congratulated the people of Jammu Kashmir for making the state Open Defecation Free by September 2018 itself.
A new temperament for Innovation, incubation and startups has come in India and Start up Abhiyan has gathered momentum, asserted the Prime Minister.
He added around 15000 Start ups have become operational in India within a span of 3-4 years and half of them are in tier I & II towns.
PM inaugurated Multipurpose Indoor Sports Facility at Sephora, Ganderbal.
The indoor sports facility will help the youngsters and give them a chance to play indoor games.
He said, all 22 districts of Jammu Kashmir are covered by the Khelo India Campaign to scout the talent and improve sports infrastructure.
PM visited the iconic Dal Lake and inspected the facilities there.
It was a day long visit of the Prime Minister to the state and he visited all three regions- Leh, Jammu and Srinagar.
