PM launches Start-Up India movement, unveils action plan for encouraging Start-Ups
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today launched the Start-up India initiative in New Delhi.
The launch by the Prime Minister this evening, was preceded by a day-long workshop on various aspects of entrepreneurship.
The Prime Minister visited a virtual exhibition and interacted with Start-up entrepreneurs.
10 outstanding Start-up innovators shared their thoughts and experiences before the Prime Minister delivered his address.
He said that when he had launched the Start-up India Initiative on 15th August, the announcement had virtually gone unnoticed, but today it had registered with people.
He said successful start-ups are usually created by those who are driven by an idea, or an urge to solve a problem that people face.
He said making money is not the primary objective, but is often a by-product.
He said Start-up innovators are often driven by a sense of compassion for others.
The Prime Minister said he wishes to turn the youth of India from job-seekers to job-creators.
He said if a Start-up can offer employment to even five people, it would be doing a great service to the nation.
He mentioned some areas where youth innovators should focus, including crop wastage, and cyber security.
The Prime Minister unveiled the highlights of the Start-up Action Plan.
He said a dedicated Start-up fund worth Rs. 10,000 crore will be created for funding of Start-ups.
He said Start-ups will be exempted from paying income tax on their profit for the first three years.
He said the Government is working on a simple exit policy for Start-ups.
He also said the Government is working towards fast-tracking of Start-up patent applications.
He announced an eighty percent exemption in patent fee for Start-up businesses, and said a self-certification based compliance system for Start-ups would be introduced for 9 labour and environment laws.
He said the Atal Innovation Mission will be launched to give a boost to innovation.
