The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today laid the foundation stone for India International Convention and Expo Centre (IICC) at Dwarka, New Delhi.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that this Centre would reflect India’s economic progress, rich cultural heritage, and our consciousness towards environment protection.
He also said it is a part of the Government’s vision which gives importance to world class infrastructure, and ease of doing business.
The Prime Minister recounted how the Union Government has begun a series of unprecedented projects for the nation’s development.
In this context, he mentioned the longest tunnel, the longest gas pipeline, the largest mobile manufacturing unit, and electricity to every household among many others.
He said these are illustrations of the skill, scale and speed of New India.
The Prime Minister said that several countries across the world have developed elaborate capacities to hold conferences.
He said this had not been thought of in India for a quite a while.
Now this is changing, he added.
The Prime Minister said that a country progresses through strong organizational and institutional capacities, which are the result of years of effort.
He said that for this, it is important to take decisions at the right time, and implement them without delay.
In this context, the Prime Minister mentioned the recent decision on merger of Public Sector Banks.
He said this had been thought about for nearly two and a half decades, but not implemented.
However, he asserted that this Government does not shy away from taking tough decisions in national interest.
He said that all round progress has happened in the last four years only because national interest has been kept supreme.
He asserted that this process of taking tough decisions in the best interest of the people, will continue.
He said that despite challenges, the economy is on a firm footing.
Mentioning “ease of doing business”, he said the Government is now working towards taking this effort to the district level as well.
