The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today launched various projects of Kandla Port Trust at Gandhidham in Gujarat.
He unveiled plaques to mark the laying of Foundation Stone for construction of the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Convention Centre; and the development of the 14th and 16th General Cargo Berth.
He handed over Letters of Award for Construction of Interchange-cum-ROB at Kutch Salt Junction; Deployment of two Mobile Harbour Cranes; and Mechanization for handling of fertilisers at Kandla Port.
Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari said that the Sagarmala project, and port-led development would have a positive impact on the State of Gujarat, and would lead to job creation as well.
Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani spoke of the rich maritime traditions of the State, and added that the spirit continues even today.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked the people for the warm welcome accorded to him on the way from the helipad to the venue of the function.
He said the people of Kutch are well aware of the importance of water.
He spoke of the rich and glorious history and culture of the Kutch region.
The Prime Minister said that if India wants to make a place for itself in global trade, it should have the best of arrangements in the port sector.
The combination of infrastructure and efficiency is vital for the port sector to thrive, he said, adding that the Kandla Port has emerged as one of the finest in Asia.
The Prime Minister said that the Chabahar port, being developed with Indian participation in Iran, would further spur the growth of Kandla Port.
The Prime Minister also mentioned the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Convention Center whose Foundation Stone was laid today.
The Prime Minister asked the people to resolve to make whatever contribution they can for the nation over the next five years, in the run-up to the seventy-fifth anniversary of Independence.
Stating that the nation is celebrating the centenary year of Pt.
Deendayal Upadhyay, the Prime Minister suggested that Kandla Port Trust be renamed as “Deendayal Port Trust – Kandla.”
