The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today unveiled plaques to mark the foundation stone laying of Mopa Airport, and an Electronic City at Tuam, during a function at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Goa.
The Prime Minister also unveiled plaques to mark the inauguration of Infrastructure for building Mine Counter Measure Vessels; and inauguration of commencement of Construction of five Coast Guard Offshore Patrol Vessels.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister began by congratulating the team which enabled India to successfully host the BRICS Summit in Goa a few weeks ago.
The Prime Minister appreciated the State of Goa, for its progress.
Talking about the Airport project, the Prime Minister said he is happy that the promise made by former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee is being fulfilled.
He said this will benefit Goa, and give an impetus to tourism.
Referring to the Electronic City project, he said a digitally trained, modern and youth driven Goa is being shaped today, which has the power to transform India.
Referring to the recent decision of the Union Government on demonetization of Rs. 500 and Rs. 2000 currency notes, the Prime Minister said that on 8th November many people of India slept peacefully, while a few are sleepless even now.
He said the Union Government has taken a key step to help the honest citizens of India, in defeating the menace of black money.
The Prime Minister thanked all those who have been contributing to ensuring the success of the demonetization exercise.
He said he also feels the pain, and these steps taken were not a display of arrogance.
He said that he has seen poverty, and understands people’s problems.
He recalled that in 2014, people had voted to free the nation from corruption.
He also mentioned the various steps that have been taken by the Union Government to curb black money.
The Prime Minister said that if any money has been looted in India and has left Indian shores, it is our duty to find out about it.
He said that he was not born to sit on a chair of high office, adding that whatever he had, including his family, and his home, he had left to serve the nation.
