The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today, visited Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and launched various development projects.
He unveiled the plaque to mark the inauguration of Civil Terminal of Hindon Airport.
He then visited Sikandarpur and laid the foundation stone of Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System.
He also launched various other development projects and distributed certificates to the beneficiaries of various Government schemes.
The Prime Minister also visited the Shaheed Sthal (New Bus Adda) Metro Station in Ghaziabad and flagged off the metro rail from Shaheed Sthal Station to Dilshad Garden.
He also took a ride in the metro.
Addressing a huge gathering at Sikandarpur in Ghaziabad, Prime Minister said that Ghaziabad is today know by three C’s; Connectivity, Cleanliness and Capital.
In this context, he mentioned about increased road and metro connectivity in Ghaziabad,its 13th rank in Swachh Survekshan rankings and its stature as a business hub of Uttar Pradesh.
The Prime Minister, said that with the new Civil Terminal in Hindon Airport, people of Ghaziabad can take air travel to other cities from Ghaziabad itself, instead of going to Delhi.
He said that fast pace at which the civil terminal was built, shows the determination and work ethic of the Union Government.
He added that the new section of metro from Shaheed Sthal will reduce the suffering of travellers plying between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.
Built at a cost of Rs.30000 crore, the Delhi-Meerut RRTS system is the first of such transport system in India, PM said.
Once completed, it will reduce the travel time between Delhi and Meerutconsiderably.
He said that themodern infrastructure being built in Ghaziabad, will ensure Ease of Living for the people in the city and nearby areas.
Similar infrastructure is being built throughout the country, PM added.
The Prime Minister spoke about the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-Dhan Yojana.
He said that the Yojana will provide financial security for informal sector workersduring old age.
He added that more than two crore farmers have received their first instalment under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi.
The Prime Minister said that his government is making the impossible possible through well thought out schemes like PM Awas Yojana, Ayushman Bharat, PM Kisan , PM-SYM etc.
He said that he derives the strength for making things possible from the citizens of the country.
