PM terms corruption a disease worse than cancer; says he will uproot it from the country with the support of the people.
“Mera Kya, Mujhe Kya” attitude must end.
PM hints at harsh measures to curb corruption.
PM: Network of roads is essential to take development to every nook and corner, just as a network of veins is essential to take blood to all parts of the body.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today described corruption as a disease worse than cancer, and said he was determined to remove corruption from the nation, with the support of the people.
The Prime Minister was addressing a large gathering at Kaithal, Haryana, after laying the Foundation Stone for the four-laning of “Kaithal-Narwana-Hisar-Rajasthan Border” Highway.
“Should corruption be removed from society,” Shri Narendra Modi asked the assembled people.
“Will you support me, if I take harsh steps to remove it,” he asked?
Amid applause, he declared that he would rid the country of corruption, with the support of the people.
He said the “Mera Kya, Mujhe Kya” attitude had taken the country on the path of destruction, and it had to be ended immediately.
The nation is not willing to bear these ills much longer, he added.
Highlighting the importance of infrastructure in the development of nations, the Prime Minister said Haryana provided a good example of this.
The stretch of land on both sides of National Highway-1 (which runs through Haryana) has developed well, but beyond that, one can see lack of development in the state.
He said a network of roads was essential for development, in the same way as a network of veins in the body provides blood to every part of it.
The Prime Minister outlined his Government`s vision of modern infrastructure development, which included world class roads, optical fibre networks, power, gas and water grids.
Referring to the four laning project of the Kaithal-Rajasthan border stretch, the foundation for which was laid today, the Prime Minister said this road would connect Haryana and Rajasthan, and spur trade and transportation links between the two states, benefiting the nation as well.
The Prime Minister said youth needed employment opportunities, and development was essential for generating employment.
He said the large gathering at the function venue is proof that the people are interested and keen for development.
They want to join the whole world on the path of development, he added.
The Prime Minister described himself as the Pradhan Sewak of the nation and said Haryana has a special right on him.
He said his Government was committed to early completion of all central sector projects pending in the state.
Saluting the farmers of Haryana for filling the granaries of India, the Prime Minister called for adoption of modern agricultural practices and technologies, which not only help in filling granaries, but also ensure that the farmer gets well-remunerated.
(Ann ka bhandar bhi bhare, aur Kisan ki jeb bhi bhare).
Referring to the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, launched by former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Prime Minister said his Government would ensure irrigation for the farmers through the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana.
The Governor of Haryana Prof. Kaptan Singh Solanki, the Chief Minister of Haryana Shri Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari, the Union MoS for Road Transport and Highways Shri Krishan Pal, and the Union MoS for Defence Rao Inderjit Singh were also present on the occasion.
