PM: Foodgrain productivity must rise from 2 tons per hectare to 3 tons per hectare
PM: Tehsil should be the unit of agricultural development
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called for increasing food-grain productivity from 2 tons per hectare to 3 tons per hectare.
Addressing a gathering of farmers at New Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan on the occasion of the launch of DD Kisan, Doordarshan’s channel dedicated exclusively to farmers, the Prime Minister also called for making the “Tehsil” the unit of agricultural planning and development.
The Prime Minister said that if the country has to move forward, villages must progress, and if villages are to progress, then it is essential for agriculture to progress.
He said there was a time when agriculture was the most preferred of professions, but over a period of time, its attractiveness had declined to rock bottom.
He added that with the right incentives and actions, this trend could be completely reversed.
The Prime Minister recalled the inspiration of former Prime Minister Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri, which had led farmers to make the country self-sufficient in the production of foodgrains.
He said the same inspiration and spirit was needed again, so that the nation became self-sufficient in the production of pulses and oilseeds.
The Prime Minister said the DD Kisan channel should keep an eye and inform farmers about the changes in weather, global markets etc., so that farmers can plan ahead and take the right decisions well in time.
The Prime Minister called for re-engaging rural youth with agriculture in a big way.
He said DD Kisan channel can also highlight the efforts of progressive farmers, so that their innovations can be replicated across the country.
The Prime Minister called for farmers to adopt a three-pronged approach to agriculture, which balanced farming, animal husbandry and tree plantation.
The Union Minister for Agriculture Shri Radha Mohan Singh, and the Union Minister for State for Information and Broadcasting, Shri Rajyavardhan Rathore, were present on the occasion.
