Lays foundation stone of Buxar and Khurja Thermal Power Plants
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today, visited Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh, and launched various development projects.
At Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology, the PrimeMinister flagged off the Noida City Centre – Noida Electronic City section of Metro through video link.He also laid the foundation stone of two 1320 MW Thermal Power Plants at Khurja in Uttar Pradesh and Buxar in Bihar.
The Prime Minister inaugurated the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology.
He unveiled a statue of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya at the campus and paid floral tributes.
Later he also visited the Deendayal Museum in the Institute campus.
Addressing the gathering, Prime Minister said that Noidahas been completely transformed.
Noida is now known for development and creating employment opportunities for youth, PM said.He added that Noida is being developed as the Make in India hub of the nation.
In this context, Prime Minister mentioned about the presence of various electronic companies in Noida, including the world’s largest mobile factory.
The Prime Minister said that the country’s biggest airport is being built in Jewar, in Uttar Pradesh.
Once completed, Jewar airport will not only bring ease of living but also will be economically beneficial to Uttar Pradesh.He also mentioned about the various airports being built all around the country.
He added that the Union Government is committed towards providing air connectivity to smaller cities through UDAN Yojana.
Speaking about the Government’s initiative towards improving the power sector in India, Prime Minister said that his government focused on all four aspects of power generation, ie, Production, Transmission, Distribution and Connection.
He said that such an approach has completely transformed the power sector and One Nation- One Grid has now become a reality.
The Government has also given right impetus to renewable energy sector also, PM said.
He added that his dream is ‘One World, One Sun, One Grid’.
The Prime Minister said that the thermal power plants launched at Buxar and Khurgawill accelerate India’s growth and will transform the power availability in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other neighbouringstates.
He spoke about the huge jump in power generation in the past four and half years.
Inaugurating the Pandit Deendayal UpadhyayaInstitute of Archaeology, Prime Minister said that the institute will provide modern amenities for research scholars and students from India and all over the world.
The Prime Minister said that a New India is being created.
He added that this has been possible due to the strength and support given by 125 crore Indians.
He reiterated the Union Government’s commitment towards eliminating corruption in the country.Saluting the bravery of the soldiers in giving a befitting response to terrorists, Prime Minister said that the Government will continue to take strong decisions against terrorism.
