On the sidelines of the G 20 Summit in Hamburg, the Prime Minister met today the President of the Republic of Korea H.E. Mr Moon Jae-in.
Prime Minister Modi extended felicitations in person to President Moon for his victory in Presidential elections.
The President recalled the Prime Minister’s congratulatory phone call and tweet in Korean language, which was warmly received by the people of South Korea.
Both leaders expressed their commitment to further develop the special strategic partnership between India and South Korea, particularly through participation in programmes such as Make in India, Digital India, Start up India, et cetera.
The Prime Minister invited President Moon to visit India at an early date.
The invitation was accepted.
Prime Minister Modi’s discussions with Prime Minister of Italy H.E. Mr Paolo Gentolini focused on promoting bilateral relations, particularly trade and investment and people-to-people ties.
Prime Minister Modi invited Italy’s participation in World Food India – the food processing exhibition to be held in India in November this year.
The two leaders stressed the significance of promoting interaction between medium enterprises of the two countries for strengthening bilateral economic cooperation.
The Prime Minister of Italy appreciated Indian investments in his country, including in industrial sector.
The two leaders also discussed ways and means to work together for providing sustainable solutions to prevent climate change and promote development in Africa.
Prime Minister Modi and the Prime Minister of Norway H.E. Ms Erna Solberg discussed bilateral matters, especially strengthening of economic relations.
Prime Minister Modi invited participation of Norwegian pension funds in the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund.
The Prime Minister of Norway invited India to participate in the Oceans’ Conference on the sidelines of UNGA.
In a gesture symbolising cooperation for attainment of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), Prime Minister Solberg presented to Prime Minister Modi, at the end of the meeting, a football with SDGs inscribed on it.
