The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today made an aerial survey of flood affected areas of Gujarat.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the flood relief operations at a high level meeting at Ahmedabad Airport.
The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, other senior ministers and top officials of the State Government, disaster response agencies and PMO.
The Prime Minister was given an overview of the extent of damage caused by floods, and the relief operations being undertaken.
The Prime Minister instructed all agencies involved in relief operations, including the Indian Air Force, to put in their best possible effort for immediate rescue and relief.
He emphasized the importance of cleanliness, hygiene and health, and said these aspects should also be accorded the highest priority.
The Prime Minister said insurance companies including those dealing with crop insurance may be advised to organise assessment of damage to assets, crops etc quickly, and take steps for early settlement of claims, so as to provide immediate relief to affected people.
The Prime Minister also called for immediate restoration of water supply, electricity and communication links.
The Prime Minister suggested that special teams be set up for repair of damaged roads, restoration of power infrastructure, and for health related assistance.
Addressing the media at Ahmedabad Airport, the Prime Minister said Gujarat had faced heavy rains for the past week.
He said ten more helicopters would be pressed into action for rescue from tomorrow, and asserted that the pace of relief work will be increased further.
He said extent of damage would be assessed in both rural and urban areas, and both short and long term measures would be put in place.
The Prime Minister appreciated the State Government, and all other agencies for the response to the flood situation so far.
The Prime Minister announced ex-gratia of two lakh rupees to the next of kin of the deceased, and fifty thousand rupees to those seriously injured in the floods.
He announced an immediate additional assistance of 500 crore rupees under the SDRF.
He expressed confidence that the people and the State of Gujarat would emerge even stronger and successfully tackle the challenge posed by the floods.
He assured the people of the State that the Union Government stands shoulder to shoulder with them at this difficult time.
