The cultural shows will display the popularity of Indian cultural traditions in Russia and its importance of Inter-cultural understanding.
Unique gesture by Russian artists to perform Indian art forms to welcome PM Modi.
Artistes will perform a musical enactment of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s poem “Geet Naya Gata Hoon” rendered by Lata Mangeshkar.
PM Narendra Modi will be greeted with twin cultural programs, Abhinandan and Abhivyakti on 24th December.
‘Abhinandan’ event envisages performance of Indian art forms (classical and folk dances) by Russian artists.
It will display the popularity of Indian cultural traditions in Russia and its importance of Inter-cultural understanding.
‘Abhinandan’ seeks to portray the assimilation of India’s performing arts traditions by Russian artistes.
Abhinandan will commence with a Shloka recital and a creative rendering of Vande Mataram by Russian Brahmakumaris, followed by continuing sequence of brief Kuchipudi, Kathak and Dandiya Raas.
The programme will conclude with all artistes coming on stage for a musical enactment of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s poem “Geet Naya Gata Hoon” rendered by Lata Mangeshkar.
‘Abhinandan’ will contain performances by 52 artistes.
The significance of this performance is that it falls on the eve of Atal ji’s birthday.
‘Abhivyakti’ is an attempt to articulate and convey an authentic image of Indian traditions, history and culture by Russian artistes and enthusiasts, which resonates in the hearts, and minds of all Indians and well-wishers of India in foreign countries.
It is a reflection of the feeling of brotherhood and amity that exists between the people of India and Russia.
‘Abhivyakti’ is dedicated to the expression of goodwill, joy, and enthusiasm aptly represented by our philosophy of ‘Vasudheva Kutumbakam’ that characterizes our interaction with the rest of the world.
‘Abhivyakti’ would contain performances by 100 artistes and will consist majorly of Namaskaram, Charishnu, Bharatnatyam, Rudra, Pandattam, Khoria, Lavni, Kalina Taal performances.
