The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today began his two-day visit in Gujarat by offering prayers at the Dwarkadheesh Temple at Dwarka.
The Prime Minister unveiled plaques to mark the laying of foundation stones for a bridge between Okha and Beyt Dwarka; and other road development projects.
The Prime Minister said he saw a new energy and enthusiasm in Dwarka today.
He said the bridge whose foundation stone has been laid, is a means to reconnect with our ancient heritage.
It will boost tourism, which will generate employment, he added, noting that development will be the key to promoting tourism.
The Prime Minister recalled how lack of infrastructure, led to difficulties and challenges for the people of Beyt Dwarka, some years ago.
The Prime Minister said that the development of the tourism sector cannot happen in isolation.
He said that if we want to draw more tourists to Gir, we should also inspire the tourists to visit other nearby places like Dwarka.
Building of infrastructure should enhance economic activities and add to the atmosphere of development, the Prime Minister said.
We want development of ports and port-led development; the blue economy should help further the progress of India, he added.
The Prime Minister said that the Government of India is taking steps towards the empowerment of fishermen.
He said Kandla Port is seeing unprecedented growth because resources were devoted to improve the port.
He said a new lease of life has been given to Alang, and steps taken for the welfare of the labourers working there.
The Prime Minister said that the Government is modernising the marine security apparatus.
An institute for this will be set up in this Devbhoomi of Dwarka, he added.
Speaking on the decisions taken by consensus in the GST Council meeting yesterday, the Prime Minister said that when there is trust in a government and when policies are made with best intentions, it is natural for people to support us for the best interests of the nation.
The Prime Minister asserted that the Government wants to help fulfil the aspirations of the people, and fight poverty.
The Prime Minister said that the world’s attention is being drawn to India, and people are coming to invest here.
“I see Gujarat contributing actively to the development of India and congratulate the Gujarat Government,” the Prime Minister added.
