“This is a Budget that converts hopes and aspirations of the people into trust; new ray of hope for the poor and downtrodden” “The Budget will give an impetus to Jan Bhagidari (people’s participation) and Jan Shakti (people’s power)” “We are going in the right direction to overcome challenges faced in last decade” PM congratulates Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley on presenting his maiden Budget
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi termed the Budget as a Budget that converts hopes and aspirations of the people into trust.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the Budget will take India to newer heights of progress and stated, “This Budget is a new ray of hope for the poor and downtrodden sections of society.”
Congratulating the Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley for his maiden budget, the Prime Minister said, “The Budget will give an impetus to Jan Bhagidari (people’s participation) and Jan Shakti (people`s power).”
He described the Budget as an effort to make India skilled and digital, guided by the usage of the latest technology.
He said that for the moribund economy, this budget has come as a Sanjeevani (new life) and an Arunoday (sunrise) for the last man in the line.
The Prime Minister said development should be all-encompassing (“samaveshak, sarvadeshak, sarvasparshi”) and should also reach those parts of the country which have so far remained underdeveloped.
Shri Modi assured the people of India that the Government is leaving no stone unturned in doing their duty to develop India and rid the nation from the challenges it faces.
He recalled how the entire world had immense expectations from India but how in the last decade the entire economic system crumbled due to which not only India but also the world lost hope and there was an atmosphere of pessimism.
Talking about the new Government`s efforts, the PM said, “Since we formed the Government there were discussions about whether this Government can free the nation from crisis but the Railway Budget and today’s General Budget show that we are moving in the right direction.”
The PM categorically stated that despite the testing times, his Government is committed to extend every possible help to the poor, the neo-middle class and the middle class, inspired by the mantra of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.’
Shri Modi talked about the innovative provisions in the Budget for the development of tribal communities and schemes for giving an impetus to skill development for youth.
“The Budget is in line with the Government’s vision to create a skilled and digital India,” Shri Modi said.
He elaborately talked about the measures for the farmers such as Krishi Sinchai Yojana that would benefit farmers and achieve the guiding principle of ‘per drop, more crop.’
He particularly mentioned the provisions in the Budget for the cleaning of the Ganga.
The PM pointed that the Budget will give a ray of hope to the housewife who is being burdened by rising prices and will place utmost importance to women empowerment and girl`s education.
He reaffirmed the Government’s commitment to make India self-reliant in the defence sector.
The Prime Minister said his Government was committed and confident of bringing India out of crisis.
And this confidence was due to the capabilities and strength of 125 crore Indians.
He said this strength would be channeled towards taking the country to new heights.
