The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on Friday, reviewed the progress of key infrastructure sectors including power, coal, housing, ports, and Digital India.
The Prime Minister was informed that the progress of electrification of all unelectrified villages is proceeding at a rapid pace.
Out of the approximately 18,500 unelectrified villages, about 6000 have already been electrified.
The Prime Minister was also informed that the progress of this important initiative is being tracked in real-time using sophisticated technology applications, including geo-tagging.
Officials explained that off-grid solutions such as solar panels are being used to reach remote and inaccessible areas, in States such as Arunachal Pradesh.
The progress in distribution of LED bulbs across the country was reviewed.
Significant progress has been achieved towards the target of 175 Giga-Watts (GW) of renewable energy capacity by 2022.
The total installed renewable energy capacity has already reached 39.5 GW.
Coal India Limited has achieved a 9.2% increase in production this year, as compared to an average of just 3 percent growth over the last 5 years.
The Prime Minister called for immediate measures to scale up the speed of providing broadband connectivity to all Gram Panchayats.
He also inquired about the progress in providing Wi-FI connectivity at important tourist destinations across the country.
He was informed that so far, 12 such locations have been provided public Wi-Fi connectivity.
The Prime Minister was informed of the progress being achieved in providing mobile connectivity to villages in LWE affected areas.
1371 towers have so far been installed in these areas.
The Prime Minister reviewed progress towards housing for all.
He directed concerned officials to expedite the implementation of this scheme, using a judicious mix of modern technology, and local building materials and techniques.
Reviewing the ports sector, the Prime Minister instructed officials to work urgently on improving the average vessel turnaround time at major ports, to bring it in line with international standards.
Drastic reduction in the timelines for border compliance, and measures for a boost to coastal shipping within the country, were also discussed.
