Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called for focused development of presentation material on how India has contributed to environment protection through the ages.
Reviewing the activities of the Ministry of Culture, he asked the Ministry to take in lead in this initiative, which, if developed in time, could be presented during the upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference – COP 21 – in Paris later this year.
India must show the world how it has been at the forefront of environment protection.
The Prime Minister asked the Ministry of Culture to focus in a big way on collecting and showcasing material based on specific themes.
For instance, he suggested a focused effort related to different water storage and conservation practices through the ages, across India.
Shri Narendra Modi was briefed on the capacity-building currently taking place in the museum sector.
The Prime Minister urged the Ministry to work towards museum development, and high-quality ‘virtual museum’ development in a big way.
In particular, the Prime Minister called for the creation of a world-class maritime museum at Lothal.
The Prime Minister asked the Ministry to draw up a comprehensive set of skilled manpower requirements, and work towards meeting these needs in coordination with the Ministry of Skill Development.
He said interpretation centres being set up by the Ministry at heritage sites and cities such as Varanasi, should also function as hubs which generate interest among children and youth, and catalyse the next generation of talent in various fields of music and culture.
The Prime Minister also called for involving senior citizens in the process of showcasing cultural heritage to tourists.
He suggested national televised “talent hunts” which could nurture the next generation of high-quality tourist guides for the top tourist destinations across the country.
The Minister of State for Culture, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, and senior officers of the Ministry of Culture and PMO were present at the review.
