The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today reviewed the progress of eight major infrastructure sectors: Civil Aviation, Ports and Inland Waterways, Railways, Roads, Telecom, Power, Coal, and New and Renewable Energy.
This was part of the regular series of reviews on infrastructure which the Prime Minister takes every month.
He stated that accelerated infrastructure development was his top priority, and also stressed the need for creating world-class infrastructure in India.
Shri Narendra Modi emphasized the importance for monitoring the progress of infrastructure development through efficiency parameters which have been identified for each of the sectors.
He said that Ministries should monitor them on electronic reporting formats.
The Prime Minister said initiatives undertaken by State Governments as well as PSUs with other countries, including SAARC countries, should also be taken into account while monitoring the progress of infrastructure sectors.
The Prime Minister said the Sagarmala project should lead to port-led development, and become a major link element for his “Make in India” vision, which envisaged a quantum jump in India’s global trade.
The Prime Minister said that Railways has been granted clearance for 100 percent FDI, and therefore the Railways should come up with a comprehensive plan for facilitating FDI in the sector.
The Prime Minister reiterated his emphasis on renewable energy, including solar energy.
He called for a solar-powered corridor along the India-Pakistan border, in the desert regions of Rajasthan and Gujarat.
Two pilot projects of 5 MW each are being initiated in this regard.
Referring to his vision of solid waste management and waste water management in 500 towns through the PPP model, the Prime Minister said bio-energy would be a vital element of this vision.
The Prime Minister called for provision of world-class utility facilities along new road projects to bring about a paradigm shift in India’s global perception.
All the sectors broadly reported significant improvement in performance over the last four months, as compared to the previous year.
