Says, Guru Gobind Singh’s teachings show the path of humanity
PM greets the nation on Lohri
Prime Minister Narendra Modi released today a commemorative coin of Rs. 350 in the national capital to mark the birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh jee.
He lauded the lofty ideals and values of the Guru Gobind Singh jee – the selfless service to humanity, devotion, heroism and sacrifice and urged the people to follow his path.
The Prime Minister was addressing a select gathering at his residence, 7 Lok Kayan Marg after releasing the commemorative coin to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh jee.
Mr. Modi said that Guru Gobind Singh ji was a great warrior, philosopher poet and guru.
He fought against oppression and injustice.
His teachings to people focused on breaking the barriers of religion and caste.
His message of love, peace and sacrifice are equally relevant today.
The Prime Minister said that Guru Gobind Singh Ji , his values and teachings will continue to be the source of inspiration and the guiding spirit for the mankind in years to come.
He added that the Commemorative Coin is a small effort on our part to show our respect and reverence to him.
He urged the people to make a resolve to walk the talk on the 11-point path shown by Guru Gobind Singh ji Maharaj.
The Prime Minister greeted the nation on Lohri on this occasion.
The Prime Minister earlier urged the people of the country to follow the path of devotion and sacrifice for the nation along the lines of Furu Gobind Singh jee in his monthly radio program, Mann Ki Baat on December 30, 2018.
He attended the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh in Patna on January 5, 2017 and released a commemorative postage stamp to mark the occasion.
Mr. Modi also recalled the ideals and values of Guru Gobind Singh jee’s as the core of humanity at the Independence Day Address from the ramparts of Red Fort on 15th August, 2016 and then at the National MSME Awards Ceremony in Ludhiana on 18th October., 2016.
