PM receives the Foreign Minister of UAE, H.H. Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi met the Foreign Minister of UAE, H.H. Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who is visiting India for the 11th meeting of India-UAE Joint Commission For Economic and Technical Cooperation that is co-chaired by EAM.
Prime Minister recalled his highly successful visit to the UAE and said that it has chartered a new course in bilateral relations between the two countries that would not only be beneficial for the two countries, but also contribute to peace and prosperity in Asia and beyond.
Prime Minister expressed deep appreciated for the vision of the UAE’s leadership in transforming the country by harnessing the possibilities of human spirit, innovation and science.
He appreciated the vibrant and multicultural society in UAE that has also embraced and protected interest of 2.6 million Indians in the country.
Prime Minister said the visit of the Foreign Minister of UAE in follow up to his own visit a couple of weeks back reflected the new found vibrancy in the relationship.
He expressed deep satisfaction that concrete steps were being taken to implement the decisions taken during his visit.
The Foreign Minister of UAE conveyed that they attached highest importance to comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries.
He reiterated UAE’s commitment to expeditiously implement the substantive outcomes emerging from the Prime Minister’s visit to UAE in August 2015 in a broad range of areas, including trade and investment, defence, security, energy, space, renewable energy, science and technology, tourism and people to people contacts.
Opportunities of bilateral cooperation, including joint research and development in the frontier areas of science and technology; UAE investments in setting up manufacturing industry in India and strengthening cooperation in third countries were, inter alia, discussed.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi reiterated his invitation to the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi to visit India at his earliest convenience.
