The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh today.
He unveiled the plaque to mark the serving of 3rd billionth meal by Akshaya Patra Foundation at Vrindavan Chandrodaya Mandir.
PM served the 3rd billionth meal to underprivileged children from schools.
He also paid floral tributes at the Vigraha of Srila Prabhupada, the Acharya of ISKCON.
Governor of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Ram Naik, CM of UP Shri Yogi Adityanath, Chairman of Akshaya Patra Foundation Swami Madhu Pandit Dasa and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.
Speaking on the occasion, PM lauded the efforts of the Akshaya Patra Foundation, and said the movement that started from serving 1500 children today serves Mid Day Meal to 17 lakh children from Schools across the country.
He was happy to note that, first meal was served during the reign of Atal Behari Vajpayee jee and he has got the opportunity to serve 3rd billionth meal.
He said Good Nutrition and Healthy Childhood is the foundation of New India.
PM said the 3 aspects of Health-: Nutrition, Immunization and Cleanliness have been given priority by his Government and National Nutrition Mission, Mission Indradhanush and Swachh Bharat Abhiyan are major initiatives.
National Nutrition Mission was launched last year reflecting its commitment to provide proper nutrition to every mother and children.
“If we succeed in delivering the nutrition coverage to every mother, every child, many lives will be saved.” added PM.
Talking about Mission Indradhanush Programme, he said that 5 more vaccines have been added to the national program.
3 Crore 40 lakhs Children and 90 lakh Pregnant Women have been immunized so far.
PM lauded Mission Indradhanush for being selected as one of the 12 best practices globally by a leading Medical Journal.
About Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and Sanitation, he noted that an International Report has noted that usage of toilets can help save lives of 3 lakh People.
The Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is an initiative in this direction.
PM also highlighted other initiatives of the Government including Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana ,Ujjawala Yojana, Rashtriya Gokul Mission.
Under Ujjawala Yojana, he said, Government has provided 1 Crore Free Gas connections in Uttar Pradesh alone.
Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is being set up for conservation, protection and development of cows.
Highlighting Government’s efforts to help those engaged in Animal Husbandry, he said credit of Rs. 3 lakh under Kisan Credit Card has been extended to them.
He said PM Kisan Yojana aimed at Farmer Welfare will benefits the Farmers of Uttar Pradesh the most, as most of the farmers of this state have landholdings less than 5 acres.
PM summed up his address, saying these efforts of the foundation showcase the importance of transition of ‘I’ to ‘We’, when we rise above ourselves and think about society.
Akshaya Patra Foundation works closely with the Ministry of Human Resource Development and State Governments to serve quality, hygienic, and nutritious food to millions of children under the Mid -day meal program.The Foundation has served mid-day meals to 1.76 million children in twelve states covering 14,702 schools.
In 2016, Akshaya Patra commemorated the serving of 2 billion cumulative meals in the presence of the then President of India, Pranab Mukherjee.
The serving of 3 billionth food for the underprivileged children from schools by Prime Minister narendra Modi is yet another step to reach out to the poor and marginalized sections of the society.
