PM to lay Foundation Stone of Defence Corridor in Uttar Pradesh
PM to inaugurate the electrification of 297 km long section of Jhansi- Khairar section
PM to dedicate to Nation the Pahari Dam Modernization Project
Foundation stone of a project for ensured water supply to Bundelkhand to be laid by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Jhansi on 15 February 2019.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate or lay foundation stone of various development projects in Jhansi.
PM will lay the Foundation Stone of Defence Corridor in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.
To make India self-reliant in defence production Government of India had taken the decision to establish two defence corridors in the country, one at Tamil Nadu and the other in Uttar Pradesh.
Jhansi is one of the six nodal points of the UP defence corridor.
The Prime Minister during the UP Investors Meet held on February 2018, had announced the setting up of one such corridor in the Bundelkhand Region of UP.
PM will inaugurate the electrification of 297 km long section of Jhansi- Khairar section.
Electrification will lead to faster trains, reduced carbon emissions and sustainable environment.
He will also dedicate to Nation the West- North Inter-Region Power Transmission Strengthening Project to ensure uninterrupted power supply to Western Uttar Pradesh.
PM will inaugurate Pahari Dam Modernization Project.
Pahari Dam is a water storage dam situated on Dhasan river in Jhansi district.
Keeping in line with the Government’s vision of providing drinking water to all, PM will lay the Foundation Stone of Piped Water Scheme for the rural areas of Bundelkhand Region.
The project is significant as it will ensure water supply to the drought prone Bundelkhand region.
Foundation Stone of Jhansi City Drinking Water Scheme Phase-II under AMRUT will also be laid by the PM.
PM will lay the Foundation Stone of Coach Refurbishing Workshop in Jhansi.
The facility will create employment opportunities to the Bundelkhand region.
PM will lay the foundation stone of doubling of 425 km long Jhansi-Manikpur and Bhimsen-Khairar railway lines.
It will not only provide easy movement of trains but also help in the overall development of Bundelkhand region.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, earlier visited Vrindavan and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to serve the three billionth meal to underprivileged children from schools and for the Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas respectively.
