Several development projects to be unveiled
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Kalaburagi in Karnataka and Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu tomorrow.
He will launch various development projects at both locations.
Kalaburagi, Karnataka
At Kalaburagi, PM will launch development projects in various sectors like Energy, Health and Education for the benefit of the people of Karnataka.
These include:
Health Sector
In a major boost to the health care sector in Karnataka, PM will dedicate the ESIC Hospital and Medical College, Bengaluru to the nation.
He will also dedicate the Super Specialty Block of KIMS, Hubballi.
These projects will ensure quality and affordable healthcare for the people in Karnataka.
Energy Sector
Shri Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Resitement of BPCL Depot Raichur to Kalaburagi
In addition. the Prime Minister will dedicate the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal Terminal at Bengaluru to the nation.
He will also dedicate the ‘Women’s Hostel for Students from North Eastern Region at Bangalore University.
These projects highlight the continued emphasis of the Union Government to ensure ‘Ease of Living’.
The Prime Minister will also interact with the beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat at Kalaburagi.
Kancheepuram, Tamil Nadu
At Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu, Prime Minister will unveil multiple projects in roadways, railways and energy sector.
These projects will further strengthen the roadway and railway infrastructure in the state.
It will also pave way for better, faster and cheaper transportation for people in Tamil Nadu.
These include:
Roadways Sector
In a major boost to the highway infrastructure in Tamil Nadu, PM will lay the foundation Stone for the four laning of Vikravandi- Sethiyathopu section, Sethiyathopu – Cholopuram section and Cholopuram-Thanjavur section of NH-45C.
He will also lay the foundation stone for six laning of Karaipettai-Walajapet section of NH-4.
For strengthening of NH-234, PM will lay the foundation stone for the widening and strengthening of carriage ways and culverts.
He will also dedicate the four laning and strengthening of carriageway of Avinashi-Tirupur- Avinashipalayam section of NH-381 to the nation.
Railways Sector
PM will dedicate the electrification of Erode-Karur-Tiruchchirapalli and Salem-Karur-Dindigul railway lines to the nation.
Electrification will reduce the GHG emissions and reduce the travel time for people and goods plying the route.
Energy Sector
The Prime Minister will dedicate the Ennore LNG Terminal to the nation.
The Ennore LNG terminal with a capacity of 5 MMTPA will help in meeting the LNG gas demand in Tamil Nadu and neighboring States
In addition, PM will unveil the statue of Dr. MG Ramachandran at Dr. MGR Janaki College of Arts & Science for Women, Chennai through video link.
Dr. MG Ramachandran was an actor, and politician who served as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu for ten years between 1977 and 1987.
He was conferred with Bharat Ratna.
The Prime Minister will also interact with the beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat at Kancheepuram.
