Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will visit China, Mongolia and South Korea from 14 May, 2015.
“期待5月14至16日访问中国，加强我们两个文明古国和最大的发展中国家之间的友谊
Looking forward to visiting China from 14-16 May to boost friendship between our 2 ancient civilizations & 2 largest developing Nations.
在中国我将访问西安、北京和上海。期待与习近平主席和李克强总理进行富有成效的讨论
In China I will visit Xi’an, Beijing and Shanghai.
I eagerly await productive discussions with President Xi Jinping & Premier Li Keqiang.
习主席邀请我访问他故乡西安，我感到荣幸；西安与对去印度取经的玄奘有密切联系
Honoured that Mr. Xi Jinping invited me to Xi’an in his home province & a land associated with Xuan Zang, who visited India.
我相信这次访问对在广泛领域加强印中经济合作奠定基础。
I am confident my visit will lay the foundation for further enhancing economic co-operation with China in a wide range of sectors.
期待在上海会见企业领袖，跟他们分享印度能提供的机会。
I also look forward to meeting the captains of industry in Shanghai & sharing with them the wonderful opportunities India has to offer.
我坚信这次访问中国将加强亚洲稳定、发展和繁荣。Am certain that my visit to China will strengthen stability, progress and prosperity in Asia.
Glad to visit Mongolia on 17 May to commemorate 60th year of diplomatic relations and the silver jubilee of Mongolia’s democracy.
Дипломат харилцааны 60, Монголын ардчиллын мөнгөн ойг тэмдэглэхээр 5-р сарын 17-нд Монголд айлчлах гэж байгаадаа баяртай байна
Democracy and Buddhism bind India with Mongolia – our spiritual friend.
Looking forward to more trade and investment with your gifted country.
Ардчилал, Буддизм нь бидний оюун санааны хөрш Монголтой Энэтхэгийг холбодог.
Танай улстай их худалдаа, их хөрөнгө оруулалт хийхийн төлөө байна
Honoured for the opportunity to address the Great Khuraal on 17 May – I reassure India’s continued support in all areas to Mongolia.
5-р сарын 17-нд Улсын Их Хурлын чуулганд үг хэлэхдээ нэн баяртай байна – Монголыг бүх салбарт үргэлжлүүлэн дэмжихээ би дахин илэрхийлж байна
Hello to my friends in the Republic of Korea.
I will be visiting this beautiful land of the morning calm once again, on 18th & 19th May.
한국 국민 여러분 안녕하세요! 아름다운 ‘고요한 아침의 나라’ 한국을 5월 18일과 19일에 다시 방문하게 되어 진심으로 기쁘게 생각합니다.
South Korea is a very important pillar of our Act East Policy.
We are committed to maximising engagement with the Asia Pacific Region.
인도는 “Act East” 정책하에 아시아태평양 지역국가들과의 협력을 더욱 발전시키고자 하며 이에 있어 한국은 매우 중요한 핵심 국가입니다.
I look forward to meeting President Park Geun-hye .
I warmly recall my meeting with her in Myanmar in November last year.
작년 11월에 미얀마에서 만나 뵈었던 박근혜 대통령님을 다시 뵙게 되어 기쁩니다.
Trade & Investment relations are at the core of our bilateral engagement.
Korea was 1st OECD country with which India signed a CEPA.
무역과 투자는 한-인도 관계의 핵심입니다.
2009년에 인도는 OECD국가 중 한국과 최초로 CEPA를 체결했습니다.
We look forward to harnessing Korean capabilities & investments in infrastructure, manufacturing, ship building, energy, defence production.
인도는 인프라와 제조, 조선, 에너지, 방위제품 분야에서 한국과의 협력과 투자를 희망합니다
India-Korea ties will be given a new energy and priority.
Korea will always be a special partner in our development journey.
한-인도 양국 관계는 새로운 에너지로 더욱 발전해 나갈 것이며, 지금부터 한국은 ‘인도의 발전과 성장 스토리’에 특별한 동반자가 될 것입니다,” the Prime Minister said.
