The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi would be visiting Vietnam from 2nd September 2016 to 3rd September 2016.
Prime Minister will also be attending Annual G-20 Leaders Summit in Hangzhou, China from 3rd September 2016 to 5th September 2016.
In a series of posts from his Facebook account the Prime Minister said:
“Greetings to the people of Vietnam on their National Day.
Vietnam is a friendly nation with whom we cherish our relationship.
Today evening, I will reach Hanoi in Vietnam, marking the start of a very important visit that will further cement the close bond between India and Vietnam.
My Government attaches a high priority to our bilateral relations with Vietnam.
The India-Vietnam partnership will benefit Asia and the rest of the world.
During the visit, I will hold extensive discussions with Prime Minister Mr. Nguyen Xuan Phuc.
We will review complete spectrum of our bilateral relationship.
I will also meet the President of Vietnam, Mr. Tran Dai Quang, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam, Mr. Nguyen Phu Trong; and the Chairperson of the National Assembly of Vietnam, Ms. Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan.
We wish to forge a strong economic relationship with Vietnam that can mutually benefit our citizens.
Strengthening the people-to-people ties will also be an my endeavour during the Vietnam visit.
In Vietnam, I will have the opportunity to pay homage to Ho Chi Minh, one of 20th century’s tallest leaders.
I will lay a wreath at the Monument of National Heroes and Martyrs as well as visit the Quan Su Pagoda.
I will visit Hangzhou, China from 3-5 September 2016 for the Annual G-20 Leaders Summit.
I will arrive in Hangzhou from Vietnam where I would have concluded an important bilateral visit.
During the G-20 Summit, I will have an opportunity to engage with other world leaders on pressing international priorities and challenges.
We will discuss putting the global economy on the track of sustainable steady growth and responding to emerging and entrenched social, security and economic challenges.
India will engage constructively on all the issues before us and work towards finding solutions and taking forward the agenda for a robust, inclusive and sustainable international economic order that uplifts the socio-economic conditions of people across the world, especially those who need it most in developing countries.
I look forward to a productive and outcome oriented Summit.”
