First instalment of Rs 2,000 to selected small and marginal farmers to be transferred directly in their accounts Around 12 crore small and marginal farmers to be benefitted PM to unveil Several Development Projects in Gorakhpur
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow on 24 February 2019.
At Gorakhpur, Prime Minister will launch the PM-KISAN scheme.
At Fertilizer Corporation of India ground in Gorakhpur, Prime Minister will mark the launch of the PM-KISAN scheme, through press of button, to electronically transfer the first instalment of Rs 2,000 to selected farmers.
This will mark the official launch of the PM KISAN scheme.
PM will also distribute certificates to select farmers under PM-KISAN scheme.
PM will also interact with select beneficiaries of PM-KISAN through video conference.
Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM KISAN)
The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM-KISAN) was announced in the interim Budget 2019-20 on February 1, 2019.
Under the Scheme, Rs 6,000 will be given per year to small and marginal farmer families having combined land holding/ownership of upto 2 hectares.
The amount will be given in three installments of Rs.2000 each.
The amount will be transferred directly to the bank account of beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer.
DBT will ensure transparency in the entire process and will save time for the farmers.
The Scheme was introduced to augment the income of the Small and Marginal Farmers (SMFs).
It is estimated to benefit more than 12 crore small and marginal farmers.
The PM-KISAN scheme aims to supplement the financial needs of the SMFs in procuring various inputs to ensure proper crop health and appropriate yields, commensurate with the anticipated farm income at the end of the each crop cycle.
This would also protect them from falling in the clutches of moneylenders for meeting such expenses and ensure their continuance in the farming activities.
PM KISAN is a Central Sector scheme with 100% funding from Government of India.
The Scheme becomes effective from1.12.2018 for transfer of benefit to eligible beneficiaries.
State Government and UT Administration will identify the farmer families which are eligible for support as per scheme guidelines.
PM KISAN is a revolutionary scheme which aims to transform the lives of small and marginal farmers in India, by providing them assured monetary support in three instalments every year.
The scheme implemented through DBT, will transfer the amount directly to the bank account of the beneficiary, thereby eliminating middlemen and corruption.
As against the onetime loan waivers, PM KISAN is truly an empowering project designed for ensuring dignified life for small scale farmers.
In the long run, the scheme is expected to address farmer migration and improve crop intensity.
PM will also lay foundation stone/ dedicate to nation, various development projects in Gorakhpur.
He will also address a gathering.
These development projects ranging from gas infrastructure to health, will be launched at Gorakhpur by the Prime Minister.
The projects are expected to immensely benefit the people of Uttar Pradesh.
