Infrastructure development, Connectivity and Ease of Doing Business to get a fillip in Coastal and Western Odish
Multi-Modal Logistics Park (MMLP) in Jharsuguda to be dedicated to the Nation
New Railway Line to be inaugurated between Balangir & Bichupali
The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will visit Balangir in Odisha tomorrow on 15 January, 2019.
He will dedicate Multi-Modal Logistics Park (MMLP) Jharsugudaand other developmental projects to the Nation.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate a new railway line from Balangir-Bichupali.
He will also lay foundation stone for permanent building at KendriyaVidhyalaya, Sonepur.
The Multi-Modal Logistics Park (MMLP) at Jharsuguda is built at a cost of Rs 100 Crores.
It will facilitate EXIM and Domestic cargo including Private Freight Traffic.
MMLP is located adjacent to Howrah- Mumbai which is 5 km from Jharsuguda Railway Station.
Many important industries like steel, cement, paper etc are located around the facility and will be benefitted from it.
The Multi-Modal Logistics Park will establish Jharsuguda as a prime logistics hub in Odisha and boost ease of doing business in the State.
The 15 km Balangir-Bichupali New Railway Line would connect coastal Odisha with western Odisha synchronising development across the State.
It will reduce travel time from Bhubaneswar and Puri to major cities like New Delhi and Mumbai.
The line would benefit many MSME and cottage industries in Odisha and open up opportunities for the mining sector in Odisha.
During the visit, the PM is likely to launch the following development projects –
• Dedication of Electrification of 813 km of Jharsuguda-Vizinagaram and Sambalpur-Angul lines at a cost of Rs. 1085 crores.
It will ensure seamless rail connectivity on the line.
• Dedication of Doubling of 13.5 km Barpali-Dungaripali and Balangir-Deogaon road line.
The doubling of line will give a boost to industrial capacity in Odisha.
• Dedication of Bridge no.
588 between Theruvali-Singapur road station.
It will result in rebuilding of the linkage over Nagaveli river which was washed away during floods in July 2017.
In order to facilitate passport services and reduce the travel hassle for the people, the Prime Minister will inaugurate New Passport SewaKendras at Jagatsingh, Kendrapara, Puri, Kandhmal, Bargarh and Balangir.It will immensely benefit the people from these regions since they had to visit Bhubaneshwar for passport related services.
PM will also inaugurate the renovation and restoration works at Nilamadhav and Siddheshwar Temple in Gandhaharadi (Boudh).These are earliest temples in Odishan temple architecture celebrating western Odisha’s “Hara-Hari” cultural fabric.
In addition, the restoration and renovation work of Ranipur Jharial group of monuments in Balangir situated on the ancient trade route on this occasion.
The PM will also inaugurate renovation and restoration works at Asurgarh Fort in Kalahandi.
Asurgarh figures as an important political and commercial centre in ancient texts.
Mr. Modi will also lay foundation stone for permanent building at KendriyaVidyalaya in Sonepur.
The building will house modern schooling facilities for the benefit of over 1000 school children.
This is Prime Minister’s second visit to the city after April 2014.
