The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat on 4th and 5th March 2019.
He will be in Jamnagar, Jaspur and Ahmedabad while in 5th March he will be in Adalaj and Vastral.
On 4th March at Jamnagar, PM will visit the Medical College Campus and launch various development works.
These include-
*Dedication to the nation of Annexe of Guru Gobind Singh Hospital :
The 750 bed annexe of Guru Gobind Singh hospital will be dedicated to the nation by the Prime Minister.
He will also inaugurate the newly built PG hostel of the hospital.
Prime Minister will visit the Hospital and interact with students and faculty of the hospital.
*Unveiling of SAUNI projects
PM will unveil the SAUNI projects at the venue through the press of a button.
The Sauni projects include dedication to the Nation of Und-1 to RanjitSagar Lift irrigation Scheme and Machu-1 to Nyari Lift Irrigation scheme.
He will also lay the foundation stone of Jodiya Desalination Plant and Und-3 to Venu-2 Lift Irrigation scheme
*Flagging of Bandra- Jamnagar Humsafar Express
Through video link, PM will flag off the Bandra- Jamnagar Humsafar Express
*Other Projects
Through the unveiling of plaque, PM will dedicate the 51km pipeline from Aaji-3 to Khijadia.
He will also lay the foundation stone of Rajkot-Kanalus Railway Line doubling project.
PM will also hand over keys to select beneficiaries to mark the dedication of 448 houses constructed by Jamnagar Municipal Corporation and 1008 flats constructed by Jamnagar Area Development Authority.
PM will address the gathering at the venue
At Jaspur
PM will visit Jaspur in Gujarat, to lay the Foundation Stone of Vishva Umiyadham Complex.
He will later address the gathering at the venue
At Vastral Gam Metro Station ,Ahmedabad
The Prime Minister at the Vastral Gam Metro Station, will inaugurate the Phase-1 of Ahmedabad Metro.
He will also lay the Foundation Stone of Phase-2 of the Metro.
PM will unveil the Common Mobility Card of Ahmedabad Metro.
PM will then flag off the metro train and take a ride in the Metro from Vastral Gam station.
Union Cabinet had given approval for the Phase-2 of Ahmedabad Metro Rail Project in February 2019.
Phase- 2 will comprise of two corridors of total length 28.254 kms.
It will provide comfortable and reliable public transport to the travelers especially in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar region.
The Ahmedabad Metro Rail phase 1 project is around 40.03 km in total, out of which 6.5 km is underground and the rest of the stretch is elevated.
These Metro Projects will not only add to connectivity, but will also reduce the travel time and enhance the ease of living substantially in the urban areas.
At BJ Medical College, Ahmedabad
At BJ Medical College ground, PM will launch various projects related to health and railways.
Health
PM will dedicate to nation various hospitals built in Ahmedabad region.
They are Women Children & Super Specialty Hospital, Cancer Hospital, Eye Hospital and Dental Hospital.
These hospitals will be a tremendous boost to the health care sector in Ahmedabad.
With these hospitals, quality health care will be ensured for the people in Ahmedabad and nearby regions.
Prime Minister will distribute Golden Cards to select beneficiaries of PM-JAY- Ayushman Bharat scheme.
Railways
PM will inaugurate the Patan- Bindi Railway Line.
He will also dedicate the Dahod Railway Workshop, which includes the modernization and augmentation of Wagon POH capacity to 150 wagons per month.
He will also lay the foundation stone of Anand-Godhra Railway Line Doubling Project.
PM will then address the gathering.
Prime Minister will also pay a visit to the New Civil Hospital and cut the ribbon to mark the inauguration of the 1200 bed New Civil hospital.
He will also visit the New Cancer Hospital and Eye Hospital in Ahmedabad.
5 March 2019
At Adalaj, Gandhinagar
On 5th March, PM will visit the Annapurna Dham Trust in Adalaj, Gandhinagar.
There he will lay the Foundation Stone of Shikshan Bhavan and Vidhyarthi Bhavan.
PM will address the gathering
Launch of Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana (PM-SYM)
At Vastral, Prime Minister will mark the launch of the pension scheme for unorganized sector workers, the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan, through the online fund transfer to beneficiaries.
He will also distribute PM-SYM Pension Cards to select beneficiaries.
About PM-SYM
In the interim budget for 2019-20, Government of India introduced a mega pension scheme namely Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan (PM-SYM) to ensure old age protection for unorganized Workers, whose monthly income is Rs 15,000/ per month or less
It is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme, where each subscriber under the PMSYM, shall receive minimum assured pension of Rs 3000- per month after attaining the age of 60 years.
A contribution matching the age specific contribution of the beneficiary will be made by the Central Government.
It is expected that at least ten crore workers in the unorganized sector will avail the benefit of Pradhan Mantri Shram-Yogi Maandhan within next five years.
About half of India’s GDP comes from over forty crore workers in the unorganised sector, mostly working as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, construction workers, rag pickers, agricultural workers, beedi workers, handloom, leather and numerous other similar occupations.
The PM-SYM along with the health coverage provided under ‘Ayushman Bharat’ and life & disability coverage provided under ‘Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana’ and ‘Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, will ensure comprehensive social security coverage for the workers in the unorganized sector at their old age.
