New Greenfield Airport in Itanagar and Sela Tunnel foundation stone to be laid by PM in Itanagar
Launch of DD Arun Prabha Channel
North East Gas Grid foundation stone to be laid by PM in Guwahati
PM to inaugurate Garjee – Belonia Railway Line in Tripura
PM to unveil various development projects
PM will visit Guwahati, Itanagar and Agartala tomorrow.
He will lay foundation stone for Greenfield Airport at Itanagar, Sela Tunnel and North East Gas Grid.
He will inaugurate DD Arun Prabha Channel and Garjee – Belonia Railway Line.
He will also unveil several other development projects in the three states.
PM in Arunachal Pradesh
PM will reach Itanagar from Guwahati tomorrow morning.
He will unveil a series of development projects at IG Park in Itanagar.
PM will lay the foundation stone for the construction of Greenfield Airport at Hollongi .
At present the nearest airport to Itanagar is at Lilabari in Assam at a distance of 80 km.
Airport at Hollongi will reduce the distance by a fourth.
In addition to providing better connectivity to the region, the airport will also unravel the tourism potential of the state.
The airport will boost the economic growth of the region and will be of strategically important to the nation.
The airport will have various sustainability features like green belt along approach road to act as noise barrier, rain water harvesting, use of energy efficient equipment, etc.
Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Sela Tunnel in Arunachal Pradesh.
It will provide all weather connectivity to Tawang Valley for civilians as well as security forces throughout the year.
The tunnel will reduce travel time to Tawang by an hour and boost tourism and related economic activities in the region.
A New dedicated DD Channel, for Arunachal Pradesh – DD Arun Prabha will be launched by PM at IG Park, Itanagar.
The channel will be the 24th channel operated by Doordarshan.
PM will also dedicate 110 MW Pare Hydroelectric Plant in Arunachal Pradesh to the nation.
The project constructed by NEEPCO will harness hydro power potential of the river Dikrong (tributary of Brahmaputra) and provide cheap hydro electric power to the North Eastern states, thereby improving power availability in the region.
Foundation stone for a permanent campus of Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) at Jote, Arunachal Pradesh will be laid by the laid by the PM on this occasion.
It will cater to film students especially those from the North Eastern states.
PM will inaugurate the upgraded Tezu Airport in Arunachal Pradesh.
The airport has been retrofitted and new terminal constructed for making it fit for commercial operations under UDAN scheme.
50 health and wellness centers in Arunachal Pradesh will be inaugurated by PM .
Health and Wellness Centers is one of the vital components of Ayushman Bharat in ensuring Universal Health Coverage.
PM will also declare 100% household electrification in Arunachal Pradesh under Saubhagya Scheme.
PM in Assam
From Itanagar, PM will return to Guwahati .
Here he will lay the foundation stone of North East Gas Grid which will ensure uninterrupted availability of natural gas across the region and boost industrial growth in the region.
The grid is part of Government’s plan to provide cheap and quality gas to the entire North East Region.
He will lay foundation stone of City Gas Distribution Networks in Kamrup, Cacher, Hailakandi & Karimganj districts.
City Gas Distribution ensures the supply of cleaner fuel (PNG) to households, industrial & commercial units.
PM will inaugurate Hollong Modular Gas Processing Plant in Tinsukia, Assam.
Once inaugurated this facility will deliver 15% of the total gas produced in Assam.
PM will also inaugurate LPG Capacity Augmentation of Mounted Storage Vessel in North Guwahati.
The foundation stone of NRL Bio Refinery at Numaligarh and a 729 km gas pipeline from Barauni – Guwahati passing through Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim & Assam will be laid by PM on this occasion.
PM in Tripura
The last leg of the PM’s visit will be in Agartala.
PM will dedicate to the nation Garjee – Belonia Railway Line through unveiling of plaque at Swami Vivekananda Stadium here.
This line will boost Tripura as the gateway to South and Southeast Asia.
PM will also inaugurate New Complex of Tripura Institute of Technology at Narsingarh.
Prime Minister will unveil the statue of Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur at Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport, Agartala.
Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur is widely regarded as the creator of modern Tripura.
He is credited with planning of Agartala city.
Unveiling of his statue is in line with the Union Government’s policy of honouring the unsung heroes of India, who have contributed greatly to nation building.
