Patna metro Rail Project Foundation to be be laid by PM
PM to inaugurate Patna City Gas Distribution Project
Phase-I of River Front Development at Patna to be inaugurated
Foundation Stone of Barauni Refinery Expansion to be laid
PM to lay foundation stone of Medical Colleges at Chhapra and Purnia
Several other Projects to be unveiled by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Bihar tomorrow on 17 February 2019.
He will arrive in Barauni where he will launch a series of development projects for Bihar.
These projects will enhance connectivity, especially in the city of Patna and nearby areas.
They will significantly augment the availability of energy in the city, and the region.
The projects will also boost fertilizer production, and significantly enhance medical, and sanitation facilities in Bihar.
The sector wise project details are as follows –
Urban Development and Sanitation
The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Patna Metro Rail Project which will give a boost to transport connectivity and add to ease of living for the people of Patna and adjoining areas.
The first phase of River Front Development at Patna will be inaugurated by PM.
Foundation Stone for the Karmalichak Sewerage Network spanning 96.54 kilometres will be laid by PM.
Works related to Sewage Treatment Plants at Barh, Sultanganj and Naugachia will be kicked off by PM.
He will also lay the Foundation Stone for 22 AMRUT projects at various locations.
Railways
PM will also inaugurate the electrification of Railway Lines on the following sectors:
· Barauni-Kumedpur
· Muzaffarpur-Raxaul
· Fatuha-Islampur
· Biharsharif-Daniawan
Ranchi-Patna AC Weekly Express will also be inaugurated on the occasion.
Oil & Gas
The Prime Minister Modi will also inaugurate the Phulpur to Patna stretch of the Jagdishpur-Varanasi Natural Gas pipeline.
He will also inaugurate the Patna City Gas Distribution project.
Foundation Stone of the 9 MMT AVU of the Barauni Refinery Expansion Project will also be laid on the occasion.
PM will lay the Foundation Stone for the augmentation of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline from Durgapur to Muzaffarpur and Patna.
He will also lay the Foundation Stone for the ATF Hydrotreating Unit (INDJET) at Barauni Refinery.
These projects will significantly augment the availability of energy in the city, and the region.
Health
The Prime Minister will lay the Foundation Stone for Medical Colleges atSaran, Chhapra and Purnia.
The Prime Minister will also lay the Foundation Stone for the upgradation of Government Medical Colleges at Bhagalpur and Gaya.
Fertilizers
The Prime Minister will also lay the Foundation Stone for the Ammonia-Urea Fertilizer Complex at Barauni.
From Barauni, PM will move to Jharkhand where he will visit Hazaribagh and Ranchi.
