Several development projects to be unveiled
PM to dedicate National Cancer Institute, Bhadsa in Jhajjar to the nation
Foundation stone of National Institute of Ayurveda, Panchkula to be laid by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Kurukshetra in Haryana on 12 February 2019.
He will participate in Swachh Shakti- 2019.
He will also inaugurate and lay foundation stone of several development projects in Haryana.
Swachh Shakti-2019
The Prime Minister will participate in Swachh Shakti-2019 and distribute the Swachh Shakti-2019 awards.
He will visit the Swachh Sundar Shauchalay exhibition at Kurukshetra and address a public gathering.
Swachh Shakti-2019 is a national event to be attended by women Panches and Sarpanches from across the country.
It is expected that 15,000 women will take part in Swachh Shakti event this year.
The event is aimed at empowering women.
First edition of Swachh Shakti programme was launched from Gandhinagar, Gujarat by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on International Women’s Day.
The next edition was Swachh Shakti-2018 from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh and now the third edition is being inaugurated from Kurukshetra to empower the women.
Development Projects
Dedication to Nation of National Cancer Institute, Bhadsa, Jhajjar
The National Cancer Institute is the state of the art Tertiary Cancer care cum Research Institute, constructed at the AIIMS Jhajjar campus.
The 700 bed hospital, will have different facilities like surgical oncology, radiation oncology, medical oncology, anaesthesia, palliative care and nuclear medicine, besides hostel rooms for doctors and attendants of cancer patients.
The NCI will be the nodal institution for all activities related to cancer in the country and will have linkages with regional cancer centers and other cancer institutes within the country.
As India’s premier institute of cancer, NCI, Jhajjar is responsible for identifying priority areas for Research & Development carrying out basic and applied research in molecular biology, genomics, proteomics, cancer epidemiology, radiation biology and cancer vaccines.
Inauguration of ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Faridabad
This will be the first ESIC Medical College and Hospital in North India.
The 510 bedded Hospital will have state of art facilities.
ESIC, under the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Govt. of India provides social security to the insured persons and their beneficiaries, especially to worker population and their dependents
Laying of foundation stone of National Institute of Ayurveda, Panchkula
National Institute of Ayurveda, Panchkula is being set up at Shri Mata Mansa Devi Temple Complex in Panchkula.
It will be a national level institute for Ayurveda treatment, education and research.
Once completed, it will be highly beneficial for the residents of Haryana and other nearby states
Laying of foundation stone of Sri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra
Sri Krishna Ayush University is the first University related to Indian system of medicine in Haryana as well as the first University of this kind in India
Laying of Foundation stone of ‘Battles of Panipat Museum’, Panipat
The museum will honour the heroes of the various battles of Panipat.
The Museum is in line with the Union Government’s initiative to honour the unsung heroes of India, who have contributed greatly to nation building.
Laying of Foundation Stone of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay University of Health Sciences, Karnal
Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay University of Health Sciences, Karnal.
These measure are expected to give a boost to educational, health and cultural facilities in Haryana.
