PM to inaugurate Medical Colleges at Hazaribagh, Dumka and Palamu
Foundation Stone for the Centre for Tribal Studies, Acharya Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh to be laid
To unveil several Development Projects
To interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana – Ayushman Bharat
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Hazaribagh and Ranchi in Jharkhand tomorrow on 17 February.
He will unveil multiple Projects pertaining to health, education, water supply and sanitation.
Several projects are expected to benefit the tribal population of Jharkhand.
At Hazaribagh, Prime Minister will unveil following projects:
The Prime Minister will inaugurate three medical college buildings at Hazaribagh, Dumka and Palamu.
He will lay the Foundation Stone for four 500-bedded hospitals at Hazaribagh, Dumka, Palamu and Jamshedpur.
PM will inaugurate four Rural Water Supply Schemes in Ramgarh and Hazaribagh districts.
He will lay the Foundation Stone for an additional six Rural Water Supply Schemes in these two districts, and an Urban Water Supply Scheme in Hazaribagh.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate the Sahibganj Sewerage Treatment Plant, and the Madhusudan Ghat, under the Namami Gange initiative.
Women Engineering College Building in Ramgarh will also be inaugurated by PM.
Foundation Stone for water supply schemes in areas inhabited by Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups will also be laid by PM.
The Prime Minister will also lay the Foundation Stone for the Centre for Tribal Studies, Acharya Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh.
PM will distribute cheques to select beneficiaries to mark the launch of DBT scheme for farmers to purchase mobile phones under e-NAM.
The Prime Minister will distribute packed milk to select school-children to mark the launch of Gift Milk Scheme for students in government schools to improve nutritional status.
At Ranchi, the Prime Minister Modi will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana – Ayushman Bharat.
