Noida City Centre–Noida Electronic City Section of Metro to be inaugurated
Foundation Stone of Khurja and Buxar Power Plants to be laid through video link by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow on 9th March 2019.
He will launch various development projects at Pt.
Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology in Greater Noida.
The Prime Minister will unveil plaque to mark the inauguration of Pt.
Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology.
He will unveil the statue of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya at the campus.
Pt.
Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology is under Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and is located at Knowledge Park-II, Greater Noida.
PM will inaugurate Noida City Centre – Noida Electronic City Section of the Metro.
The new section will provide a convenient and faster mode of transport for the residents of Noida.
It will also decongest the roads and provide an environment friendly mode of transport.
The 6.6km long section is an extension of Delhi Metro’s Blue Line.
The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of two thermal Power Plants.
One of them is 1320 MW Super Thermal Power Project at Khurja, in District Bulandshahar of Uttar Pradesh.
The Khurja Super Thermal Power Project will be based on Supercritical Technology with two units of capacity 660 MW each, equipped with latest emission control technology to protect the environment; has high efficiency and uses less fuel to generate power.
The Khurja plant will transform the power deficit situation of Northern Region, particularly Uttar Pradesh and will benefit states like Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.
The project is expected to generate substantial direct and indirect employment and overall development of District Bulandshahr and nearby districts of Western Uttar Pradesh.
The second one is the 1320 MW Thermal Power Plant at Buxar in Bihar.
The Buxar thermal Power plant will be launched through video link.
The Buxar Thermal Power Plant will be based on Supercritical Technology with two units of 660 MW each, equipped with latest emission control technology to protect the environment and has high efficiency.
The Buxar plant will transform the power deficit situation in Bihar and the Eastern region.
The Prime Minister will later address a gathering.
