PM to attend International Fleet Review in Visakhapatnam.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will be on a three-day visit to the States of Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha from February 5th to 7th, 2016.
The Prime Minister will arrive in Dibrugarh, Assam on February 5th.
He will inaugurate Brahmaputra Cracker and Polymer Ltd at Lepetkata, which is the first ever petro-chemical project in the entire North-East.
As part of the same event, the Prime Minister will also dedicate to the nation, India’s highest wax producing unit using indigenous technology in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd.
The Prime Minister will address tea workers at Moran, near Dibrugarh.
He will deliver an address at the 85th Annual Conference of Srimanta Sankaradeva Sangha at Sibsagar.
The Prime Minister will inaugurate the 12th South Asian Games in Guwahati.
Eight countries: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are participating in the Games.
On February 6th, the Prime Minister will attend the International Fleet Review at Visakhapatnam.
He will visit a maritime exhibition.
The Prime Minister will arrive in Bhubaneswar on February 7th, and will dedicate to the nation the National Institute of Science Education and Research.
Shri Narendra Modi will visit the Shri Jagannath Temple in Puri.
The Prime Minister will dedicate to the Nation, the state of the art Indian Oil Refinery at Paradip.
The Paradip Refinery will have a total capacity of 15 MMTPA.
The Indane Maximization, or INDMAX unit at the refinery has been set up using indigenous technology to produce a higher quantity of LPG.
The Refinery is expected to unleash a new wave of industrialization in the hydrocarbon sector, and accelerate economic development in Eastern India.
The Prime Minister will visit the Main Control Room, and the INDMAX unit at the refinery.
The Prime Minister will arrive in Visakhapatnam on the afternoon of February 7th, where he will witness the operational demonstration and the International City Parade at the International Fleet Review.
The Prime Minister will also deliver an address.
