Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) facility in Visakhapatnam, Mangalore and Padur to be dedicated to the nation
Foundation stone of IIT Dharwad and IIIT Dharwad to be laid
PM to unveil various development projects
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu and Hubli in Karnataka tomorrow.
He will unveil several development projects in these States.
PM in Andhra Pradesh
The first destination of the PM will be in Guntur, in Andhra Pradesh where he will unveil several projects at Yetukar Bypass, Guntur.
In a boost to energy security of the country, PM will dedicate to the nation, 1.33 MMT Visakhapatnam Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) facility of Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve Limited (ISPRL).
ONGC’s Vashishta & S1 development project located in the Krishna-Godavari (KG) Offshore Basin in Andhra Pradesh will be inaugurated by PM.
He will lay the foundation stone for setting up a new terminal of Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd (BPCL) at Krishnapatnam.
The projects will give major push to the gas-based industrial units in Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring states.
Prime Minister will then proceed to Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu.
PM in Tamil Nadu
PM will unveil several development projects at Perumanallur village in Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu.
He will lay the foundation Stone of ESIC Hospital, Tiruppur.
This State-of-the-art, 100- bedded Hospital will cater to the medical needs of over one-lakh workers and their family members in Tiruppur and nearby areas covered under ESI Act.
Foundation stone for a new integrated building at Trichy Airport and for the modernization of Chennai airport will be laid by PM.
He will dedicate to the nation, ESIC Hospital Chennai.
This 470-bedded hospital with state of art facilities will provide quality treatment on all disciplines of medicine.
BPCL’s Ennore Coastal Terminal will be dedicated to the nation on this occasion.
Prime Minister Modi will also inaugurate new Crude Oil Pipeline from Chennai Port to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited’s (CPCL) Manali Refinery.
The pipeline, built with enhanced safety features, will ensure safe and reliable supply of crude oil, and will cater to the needs of Tamil Nadu and neighbouring states.
Passenger Service for a section of Chennai Metro from AG-DMS Metro station to Washermenpet Metro Station will be inaugurated by PM.
The 10 km section is a part of Phase-1 of Chennai Metro.
PM will then proceed to Hubli in Karnataka.
PM in Karnataka
Last leg of PM’s visit tomorrow will be in Hubli, Karnataka.
He will unveil several projects at Gabbur in Hubli.
PM will lay the foundation stone of Indian Institute of Technology –Dharwad and Indian Institute of Information Technology –Dharwad.
City Gas Distribution Project at Dharwad will be dedicated cto the nation on this occasion. .
Government has put strong emphasis on expansion of City Gas Distribution (CGD) network coverage across the country to increase the availability of cleaner fuel to citizens.
In yet another move to ensure energy security for the country, PM will dedicate to the nation, the 1.5 MMT Mangalore Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) facility and 2.5 MMT Padur SPR facility of ISPRL.
Doubling of 18 km long Chikjajur-Mayakonda Section is another highlight.
This section is a part of 190 km long Hubli – Chikjajur Doubling project and is located on Bengaluru – Hubballi route of South Western Railway.
Doubling will increase line capacity of this important route connecting Bengaluru to Hubballi, Belagavi, Goa, Pune and Mumbai, resulting in faster movement of trains.
PM will also inaugurate the commencement of electrification work of 346 km long Hospet-Hubli-Vasco da Gama line.
It will reduce running time and result in reduced GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions due to reduction in diesel consumption.
In keeping with his commitment of Housing for All, PM will witness the E-Griha Pravesh of 2384 houses constructed under PMAY(U) at Dharwad.
