Boost to road connectivity, housing for poor, water supply & sewerage system in Solapur, Maharashtra
PM to lay foundation stone of 30,000 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Underground Sewerage System and Sewage Treatment Plants to be unveiled
New NH-52: Four Laned Section of Solapur-Tuljapur-Osmanabad to be dedicated to the nation
The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will visit Solapur in Maharashtra tomorrow.
He will launch several development projects and lay foundation stones for various Projects.
Giving a boost to road transport and connectivity in, the Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation Four Laned Section of Solapur – Tuljapur – Osmanabad of NH-211 (New NH-52).
The four laning of Solapur – Osmanabad highway will help improve the connectivity of Solapur, with the important Marathwada region of Maharashtra.
Route Layout of Four Laning of Solapur-Tuljapur-Osmanabad section
Prime Minister will lay foundation Stone of 30,000 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.
These will primarily benefit poor homeless people like rag pickers, rickshaw drivers, textile workers,beedi workers, etc.
The total cost of the project is Rs.1811.33 crores, out of which total 750 crores will be provided by Central & State Government as assistance.
In keeping with his vision of Swachh Bharat, the Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation Underground Sewerage System, and three Sewage Treatment Plants in Solapur.
This will increase the sewer coverage of the town and improve sanitation in the city.
It will replace the existing system and also connect to the trunk sewers being implemented under AMRUT Mission.
The Prime Minister will also lay foundation stone of the Combined Project of Improvement in Water Supply and Sewerage System, as part of Area Based Development in Solapur Smart City, Augmentation of Drinking Water Supply from Ujani Dam to Solapur City and Underground Sewerage System under AMRUT Mission.
The sanctioned cost of the project is Rs. 244 Cr under Smart City Mission.
This project is expected to bring significant improvement in service delivery and improve public health enabled by technology as a means to create smart outcomes for citizens.
He will also address a public gathering in the city.
This is Prime Minister’s second visit to the city.
In his earlier visit on 16 August 2014, he laid foundation stone for four laning of Solapur – Maharashtra / Karnataka Border section of NH 9 and dedicated 765 kV Solapur – Raichur power transmission line.
