The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will visit Madurai, Tamilnadu on January 27, 2019.
The visit assumes significant in the wake of giving a boost to health care facilities and services in Madurai and adjoining areas as the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of AIIMS in Madurai and inaugurate the super speciality blocs of Rajaji Medical College, Madurai ,Thanjavur Medical College and Tirunelveli Medical College as a part of upgradation projects of three Government Medical Colleges on the same day.
The Prime Minister will address a public gathering on this occasion.
AIIMS, Madurai
PM will unveil the plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone of AIIMS, Madurai.
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had approved setting up of AIIMS at Thoppur in Madurai on 17.12.2018.
AIIMS in Tamilnadu was announced in the union budget of 2015-16.
With an approved budget of Rs 1264 Crores, the construction, operation & maintenance cost of new AIIMS is being fully borne by the Central Government.
It will be completed in 45 months by September 2022.
AIIMS, Madurai will be a 750 bedded hospital with 30 Emergency/Trauma beds, 75 beds in the ICU & Critical Care unit, 215 beds in Super Specialty unit , 285 Specialty beds including Surgical & Medical units along with 30 beds each for Ayush and Private wards.
In addition, there will be Administration Block, Auditorium, Night Shelter, Guest House, Hostels and residential facilities.
AIIMS Madurai is setup with a long term focus on PG and higher education and Research.
It will have a capacity of 100 MBBS seats; 60 B.Sc.(Nursing) seats..
Setting up of new AIIMS would transform the health care facilities, health education and training in the region, It will also address the shortfall of health care professionals in the region.
The establishment of new AIIMS will not only provide super speciality health care to the population but also result in creation of a large pool of doctors and other health workers in this region which can be available for primary and secondary level institutions / facilities being created under National Health Mission (NHM).
Government Medical College Upgradation Projects
PM will unveil the plaques to inaugurate Super Speciality Block of Rajaji Medical College, Madurai .
Super Speciality Blocks of Thanjavur Medical College and Tirunelveli Medical College as a part of the Government Medical Colleges upgradation projects.
Total project cost for the up-gradation of three Medical Colleges with Super speciality blocs is Rs.450 crores Each of the three project costs Rs.150 Crore out of which the Central share is Rs.125 crore and State share is Rs.25 crore..
At Rajaji Medical College, Madurai the project involves construction of 320 bedded Super Speciality Block (including 50 ICU beds) having 7 departments, viz.
Neurosurgery, Neurology, Nephrology, Plastic Surgery, Urology, Microvascular and Medical & Surgical Gastroenterology.
At Thanjavur Medical College, Thanjavur, the project involves construction of 290 bedded Super Speciality Block (including 90 ICU beds) having 10 departments, viz.
Cardiology, Cardiac Surgery (CTVS), Neurology, Neurosurgery, Urology, Nephrology, Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Medical Gastroenterology, Surgical Gastroenterology, Vascular Surgery, with 5 Operation Theaters.
At Tirunelveli Medical College, Tirunelveli ,the project involves construction of 330 bedded Super Speciality Block (including 50 ICU beds) having 8 departments, viz.
Cardiology, Cardiac Surgery (CTVS), Neurology, Urology, Nephrology, Reconstructive Surgery, Medical Gastroenterology, and Surgical Gastroenterology, with 7 Operation theaters.
These projects are a part of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana which aims to set up 20 AIIMS across the country out of which six have already been established, and to upgrade 73 medical colleges across the country.
New AIIMS and the three super speciality blocs at Government Medical Colleges in Tamilnadu are a reflection of the Government’s commitment towards a Healthy India and expected to play a major role in addressing the healthcare needs of the people from Madurai and adjoining areas.
