The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will visit Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala tomorrow.
He will review the situation arising in the aftermath of cyclone ‘Ockhi’, and the status of relief operations, at Kavaratti, Kanyakumari, and Thiruvananthapuram.
The Prime Minister will meet with officials and public representatives.
He will also meet with cyclone victims, including fishermen and farmer delegations.
Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep were caught unaware by the sudden and unprecedented cyclone ‘Ockhi’ in the Arabian Sea on 30th November which claimed 88 lives including 70 in Kerala and 18 in Tamil Nadu while many are still reported missing in the sea.
Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued first Bulletin regarding formation of depression over Southwest Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka coast about 500 Km South East of Kanyakumari on 29th November.
The Union Home Ministry sent a warning on 29th November to the Chief Secretary of Kerala about a possible cyclone.
The government agencies at the Centre and the affected States swung into action.
The situation was constantly monitored and rescue and relief operations were conducted.
Coast Guard, Air Force, Navy, NDRF and local Government agencies joined in the search and rescue operations.
Two teams each of NDRF were deployed and continue to assist Tamil Nadu and Kerala in search and relief operations.
7 teams of NDRF were deployed in Gujarat and 3 teams of NDRF are deployed in Maharashtra as prepositioning deployment for cyclonic storm, ‘Ockhi’.
220 persons in Tamil Nadu, 309 in Kerala and 367 persons in Lakshadweep have been rescued so far.
Around 12000 people in the cyclone affected area have been evacuated.
250 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka have landed safely at Lakshadweep on 3rd December.
Also 809 fishermen along with 68 boats (66 boats from Kerala and 2 from Tamil Nadu) safely reached Devgarh port in Sindhudurg, Maharashtra.
These fishermen have already left to their respective States.
Government has set up 112 relief camps including 29 in Tamil Nadu, 52 in Kerala and 31 in Lakshadweep for those suffering in the aftermath of cyclonic storm ‘Ockhi’.
Relief material and supplies were provided to inmates in relief camps set up by the government agencies.
State Governments of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep administration also took prompt action in dealing with the situation.
The Central Government deployed 13 Ships, 4 Aircrafts and 1 Helicopter of Coast Guard, 10 Ships, 4 Aircraft and 5 Helicopters of Navy and 1 Aircraft and 3 Helicopters of Air Force for rescue and relief.
The Navy has provided humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to people affected by cyclone ‘Ockhi’ in Lakshadweep.
Navy ships carried the relief material to the island of Minicoy and also to Kavaratti and Kalpeni islands.
Center has released 2nd installment of State Disaster Relief Fund, SDRF to the Government of Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the current financial year of 2017-18 to supplement the efforts of State Government in dealing with the natural calamity including cyclonic storm ‘‘Ockhi’’.
During the financial year 2017-18, amount of central share of SDRF to State Government of Kerala and Tamil Nadu is Rs. 153 crore and Rs. 561 crore respectively.
Defence Minister Smt.
Nirmala Sitaraman undertook a visit to the cyclone affected areas of both Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu and Thiruvananthapuram on 3rd and 4th December.
National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) chaired by the Cabinet secretary, Shri P K Sinha met on 04th December and reviewed the relief and rescue operations in States and Union Territories affected by the cyclone.
