PM to lay foundation stone of New AIIMS at Vijaypur in Jammu and Awantipora in Pulwam Foundation stone of 624 MW Kiru Hydroelectric project in Kishtwar to be laid by the PM Foundation stone of the new terminal building of KBR Airport in Leh to be laid by the PM PM to lay foundation stones / dedicate to the nation various development projects in Jammu and Kashmir
The Prime Minister will visit Jammu, Srinagar and Leh on Feb 03, 2019.
He will inaugurate / lay foundation stones for various development projects there.
He will also inspect Dal Lake in Srinagar.
The Prime Minister will unveil the plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone of AIIMS, Vijaypur and AIIMS, Awantipora.
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had approved setting up of AIIMS at Vijaypur in Jammu and AIIMS at Awantipora in Pulwama, Kashmir.
Setting up of new AIIMS would transform the health care facilities, health education and training in the region.
PM will also lay the foundation stone for the construction of Northern Regional Centre Campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication at Jammu through the unveiling of plaque
University of Ladakh will be launched by the Prime Minister.
It will be the first ever University in Ladakh region, established under University of Ladakh Act 2018.
It will be a cluster University comprising of degree colleges of Leh, Kargil, Nubra, Zanskar, Drass and Khaltsi.
The university will have administrative offices at Leh and Kargil.
PM will also digitally launch various projects under RashtriyaUchchatarShikshaAbhiyan (RUSA).
By the press of button, PM will unveil plaques to:
Lay foundation stone of 54 new Model Degree Colleges, 11 Professional Colleges and 1 Women’s University in the country.
Inaugurate 16 Model Degree Colleges, 66 Entrepreneurship, Innovation & Career Hubs in the country.
Lay foundation stone of 3 Model Degree Colleges in J&K, at Kishtwar, Kupwara and Baramulla
Lay foundation stone of Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub in University of Jammu.
University Institute of Engineering & Technology, Kathua will be dedicated to the nation by the PM.
He will then lay the foundation stone for construction of Transit accomodation for Kashmiri migrant employees in Kashmir valley through the unveiling of plaque.
PM will declare 100% electrification of households in the State Of Jammu And Kashmir under SAUBHAGYA Scheme.
PM will lay foundation stone of 624 MW Kiru Hydroelectric project in Kishtwar, Jammu Kashmir.
It is a run of river project across River Chenab and once completed, the project will generate 2272 Million Units of electricity annually.
PM will inaugurate 9 MW Dah Hydroelectric project.
Located in Dah near village Datang, this project is a run-of–the-river scheme, by Jammu & Kashmir State Power Development Corporation Limited.PM will dedicate to the nation, 220 KV Srinagar- Alusteng – Drass- Kargil – Leh transmission system.
The foundation stone of this prestigious project was also laid by him in August 2014.
400 KV D/C Jalandhar-Samba-Rajouri- Shopian-Amargarh(Sopore) transmission lane will be dedicated to the nation by PM.
The project has augmented the grid connectivity in Jammu & Kashmir.
Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of 1640 m span double lane bridge over River Chenab at Sajwal.
The project will provide an alternative route for the population of Sajwal and Indri Pattian.
With the completion of this bridge, the distance between Sajwal and Indri Pattian shall be reduced to 5 kms from 47 kms earlier.
PM will lay the foundation of the project aimed at reducing pollution of Rivers Devika&Tawi under the National River Conservation Plan (NRCP).
Upon completion, the project will have a significant and direct beneficial impact in terms of reduction of pollution load in the two rivers and improvement in their water quality.
PM will lay foundation stone of the new terminal building of KushokBakulaRimpochee (KBR) Airport in Leh by unveiling the plaque.
The new terminal will be a modular, energy efficient and self-sustaining building of 18,985 sq.m
PM will then open new tourist and trekking routes in Ladakh.
This will offer diverse tourist activities in Ladakh and will result in more tourist flow.
It will also open better livelihood opportunities to many villages.
Facilities for launch of Rural BPO, Bandipora will be inaugurated by the PM.
This will enhance employment opportunities for the youth in Bandipora and neighbouring districts.
PM will inaugurate Multipurpose Indoor Sports Facility at Sephora, Ganderbal.
The indoor sports facility will be an invaluable asset for the youth of the district Ganderbal, where they will get the chance to play indoor games.
In Srinagar, Prime Minister will interact with students from the states of Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra and Telangana.
He will also hold an interaction with the newly elected Sarpanches.
PM earlier visited Jammu, Srinagar and Leh on May 19, 2018 to lay the foundation stone for various infrastructure projects in the state.
