Focus on all round economic development for a ‘New India’
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 9th edition of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit on 18th January,2019.
The 9th Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit will witness the participation of Heads of States, Captains of global industry and Thought Leaders.
The 9th Vibrant Gujarat 2019 Summit will provide a forum for discussion on Global, National and State-level agendas with a sharp focus on all round economic development for a ‘New India’.
In addition to the flagship events organized as part of Vibrant Gujarat, the 9th edition of the Summit will also witness the launch of a completely new set of forums aimed at diversifying the nature of knowledge sharing at the Summit, and intensifying the level of networking between participants.
The entire idea of Vibrant Gujarat, was conceptualized by Shri Narendra Modi, in his term as Chief Minister of the State.
From its beginnings in 2003, Vibrant Gujarat has now become a global networking platform, for all States of India, to participate, and promote investment.
The Summit has evolved into a platform for brainstorming on agendas of global socio-economic development, in addition to being a facilitator for knowledge sharing and forging effective partnerships.
The 8th Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, held in January 2017, witnessed participation from 25,000+ delegates from 100+ countries, including 4 Heads of States, Nobel Laureates, Captains of global industry and Thought Leaders.
Highlights of Vibrant Gujarat 2019
Roundtable for Opportunities in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Education & Research in India
This roundtable will be attended by eminent educationists of India and key policy makers in Government of India and State Governments.
The discussions in the roundtable will be put together as the “Roadmap for opportunities in STEM Education & Research in India”.
Exhibition on Futuristic Technologies and Space Exploration
Offering a vision of the future of space travel.
International Conference on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show
This flagship Trade Show is spread over an area of 200,000 sq.
Mts., and showcases exhibits covering 25 sectors.
Seminar on Port Led Development & Strategies to establish India as the Trans-shipment Hub of Asia
The seminar will involve discussion on themes relevant to future development of the transport sector in Gujarat and India.
Seminar on Make in India
The seminar will showcase the Success Stories of Make in India program & key interventions taken by Government to ensure the success of the program.
Seminar on Opportunities for Industry in Defence & Aerospace
This seminar is planned with the objective to sensitize participants about opportunities in defence and aeronautics in Gujarat, and to deliberate on a way forward for India and Gujarat to emerge as a manufacturing hub for defence and aeronautics.
Mobility Led Urban Development
The event will involve deliberations on creating livable cities using mobility as a vehicle to drive Urban Development by incorporating the use of advanced technology, parking solutions, electric vehicles and big data.
Sustainable Technology Driven Agriculture for New India
Textile Conclave – Exploring growth potential of Textile for Building New India
Taking forward the vision of the Honourable Prime Minister for a New India, the Textile Conclave will have participation from industry captains, Government leaders, policy makers and think tanks to deliberate, discuss and arrive at a way forward to sustain the growth of textile industry in India, and to support the initiative of creating a New India.
