Government stands for the poor; focus is on expansion of health care facilities
Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the state of art, super-speciality public hospital – Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Ahmedabad today.
Built by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, the 78 meter high, 1500 bed hospital is equipped with all modern amenities, including an air ambulance.
PM inspected the facilities at the hospital.
He lauded the efforts of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation for setting up a world class hospital and said, “Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Ahmedabad hospital will prove to be a model for other government hospitals in the country.”
Built at a cost of Rs. 750 crore, the 17 floor hospital would provide world class services at an affordable price and is linked with Ayushman Bharat.
Addressing a gathering on this occasion, Mr. Modi emphasized the importance of Ayushman Bharat saying, “It is because of Ayushaman Bharat there is an increasing need for new hospitals in even smaller towns.
New hospitals are opening faster, the demand for doctors and paramedic staff is increasing, thereby creating many employment opportunities are coming up for the youth in the healthcare sector”.
Prime Minister said the country has seen a major expansion in healthcare facilities and medical education over the past four years which will be of great help in meeting the health care needs of the citizens.
The concern for the poor and the need to address them came to the fore as PM said,” The Government stands with the poor and its priority for them is reflected in expansion of health care services and provision of generic drugs at low prices under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana.
Around 5000 Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendras have been set up across the country.”
The Prime Minister said that his Government is committed towards the equality of opportunity for all and 10% reservation for general category poor is a step in this direction.
For this purpose, number of seats in educational institutions is being increased by 10%.
He lauded Gujarat Government for being the first state to implement the decision to provide 10% reservation for the general category poor in government jobs and educational institutions.
In a lighter vein, the Prime Minister said, it is his first visit to Gujarat in the New Year, at a time when festival season is around and what better time would it have been to dedicate a big health care facility for the people of Ahmedabad.
He added that very few municipal corporations in the country have come forward with such a world class healthcare facility.
PM lauded Sardar Patel’s role as a Mayor of Ahmedabad who led by example with his drive for health, hygiene and cleanliness in the city.
The Prime Minister summed up his address at the event with his remarks that in keeping up with its commitment towards equal opportunity for all and for the development – Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is the way forward for New India.
