Says focus is on development & priority for Eastern India and Bihar
Rs. 13,365 crore Patna Metro Rail Project foundation laid by PM
PM inaugurates Patna City Gas Distribution Project
Barauni Refinery Expansion get started
Medical Colleges at Chhapra and Purnia foundation stone laid by PM
In a significant boost to development of infrastructure, connectivity, energy security and health care services in Bihar, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi unveiled projects worth Rs.33,000 crores in Barauni today.
Governor of Bihar, Laljee Tandon, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi Union Minister of Food and Consumer Affairs Ramvilas Paswan along with several other dignitaries were present on this occasion.
PM addressed a public gathering after launching the projects.
Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of Patna Metro Rail Project at an estimated cost of Rs. 13,365 crores digitally by press of a button.
It will have two corridors — Danapur to Mithapur and Patna Railway Station to New ISBT and is likely to be completed in five years.
The project will ease the public transport in Patna and adjoining areas.
PM inaugurated the Phulpur to Patna stretch of the Jagdishpur-Varanasi Natural Gas pipeline on this occasion.
Citing it as yet another example of his vision that projects for which foundation stone is laid by him are kickstarted by him, PM reminded that he had initiated the project in July 2015.
PM said, “It will ensure the supply of gas to the local industries and to the revived Barauni Fertilizer factory besides the start of piped gas supply in Patna.
A gas based ecosystem will create employment opportunities for the youth in the area.”
In a reflection of his priorities for the region, PM said, “ Government is committed for the overall development of Eastern India and Bihar.”
Under Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana, Varanasi, Bhubaneshwar, Cuttack, Patna, Ranchi and Jamshedpur are being connected through gas pipeline.
PM inaugurated Patna the Patna City Gas Distribution project which will provide piped gas supply in Ptana city and adjoining areas..
These projects will enhance connectivity, especially in the city of Patna and nearby areas and augment the availability of energy in the city, and the region.
Expressing his commitment to uplift the poor, PM said, “ NDA government’s vision of development is on two lines, infrastructure development and upliftment of the marginalized sections of society who have been struggling to avail basic amenities for over 70 years.”
Unveiling the expansion of health care system in Bihar, he said, “ It is a historic day for Bihar in terms of health care infrastructure development.
New Medical Colleges will now be coming up in Chapra and Purnia while Medical colleges in Gaya and Bhagalpur are being upgraded.
He added that AIIMS has come up in Patna while work is on to set up another AIIM in the state to meet the healthcare needs of the people.”
PM inaugurated the first phase of River Front Development at Patna .
He also laid the foundation Stone for the Karmalichak Sewerage Network spanning 96.54 kilometres.
Works related to Sewage Treatment Plants at Barh, Sultanganj and Naugachia were kicked off by PM.
He also laid the Foundation Stone for 22 AMRUT projects at various locations.
Referring to the pain, anger and grief in the country after the terror attack in Pulwama, PM said, “I feel the same fire in my heart that’s burning inside you” PM paid tributes to martyr Constable Sanjay Kumar Sinha from Patna and Ratan Kumar Thakur from Bhagalpur who laid down their lives for the country and said the entire nation stands with the family of martyrs in this hour of grief.
Foundation Stone of the 9 MMT AVU of the Barauni Refinery Expansion Project was laid by PM.
He also laid the foundation Stone for the augmentation of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline from Durgapur to Muzaffarpur and Patna.
PM also laid the foundation Stone for the ATF Hydrotreating Unit (INDJET) at Barauni Refinery.These projects will significantly augment the availability of energy in the city, and the region.
Ammonia-Urea Fertilizer Complex at Barauni foundation stone was laid by PM during this visit..It will boost fertilizer production.
PM also inaugurated the electrification of Railway Lines on the following sectors: Barauni-Kumedpur, Muzaffarpur-Raxaul, Fatuha-Islampur,· Biharsharif-Daniawan.
Ranchi-Patna AC Weekly Express train was inaugurated on this occasion.
Next destination of PM after Barauni is in Jharkhand where he will visit Hazaribagh and Ranchi.
He will lay the foundation stone for hospitals in Hazaribagh, Dumka and Palamau and inaugurate a series of development projects.
