The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Arunachal Pradesh today.
At a function in Itanagar, he inaugurated the Dorjee Khandu State Convention Centre.
This Convention Centre has an auditorium, conference halls and an exhibition hall.
The Prime Minister also dedicated the State Civil Secretariat Building to the nation, and laid the Foundation Stone of the Academic Block of the TomoRiba Institute of Health and Medical Science.
Addressing a large and enthusiastic gathering, he said he is delighted to visit Arunachal Pradesh and be among the wonderful people of the State.
He said most of the key departments are based in the new Secretariat.
This makes it easier for people coming from distant villages, he added, noting that coordination and convenience are enhanced.
He expressed happiness at the inauguration of the Convention Centre in Itanagar.
This is more than a building, it is a vibrant centre that will further the aspirations of Arunachal Pradesh, he said.
He said that conferences and cultural activities will draw government officials and private companies.
He said he would personally suggest to people that they could go to Arunachal Pradesh, and hold important meetings at this Convention Centre.
He recalled that he had visited Shillong for a North-East Council meeting, and an important meeting related to agriculture was held in Sikkim.
The Prime Minister said Union Ministers, and officials from the Union Government are visiting the North-East regularly.
Speaking about the health sector, the Prime Minister said that there is need to focus attention on human resource development, infrastructure, and use of modern technology in this sector.
He said the Union Government is working towards building medical colleges in all parts of the nation.
He said this is because, when one studies in a particular area, one becomes better acquainted with the local health challenges.
He said healthcare has to be of good quality and it must be affordable.
He said the prices of stents had been brought down so that the poor and middle class families benefit.
He said the Ayushman Bharat scheme will take the lead in providing quality and affordable healthcare.
The Prime Minister complimented the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu, for his good work in the State.
He said the Chief Minister has prepared a top quality roadmap on how Arunachal Pradesh should be in 2027.
He added that inputs for this plan were taken not just from officials but also from people from all walks of life.
