PM lays Foundation stone of the new terminal building of KBR Airport in Leh
Several Development projects for Ladakh region unveiled by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi arrived Leh in Ladakh in the first leg of his one day visit to Leh, Jammu and Srinagar today.
He inaugurated / laid foundation stones for various development projects there.
Applauding the crowd for braving a chilly winter, PM said “Those who live in difficult situations, they challenge every difficulty.
Your affection gives me a great motivation to keep working hard.”
He inaugurated the University of Ladakh and said, “Young students constitute 40% of the population of Ladakh.
There has been a long standing demand for a University in this region.
With the launch of the University of Ladakh this demand would be fulfilled.”
This University will be a cluster University comprising of degree colleges of Leh, Kargil, Nubra, Zanskar, Drass and Khaltsi and will have administrative offices at Leh and Kargil for the ease of students.
PM inaugurated 9 MW Dah Hydroelectric project in Dah near Datang village and 220 KV Srinagar- Alusteng – Drass- Kargil – Leh transmission system.
While inaugurating these projects PM said, “We’ve left behind culture of delays”.
He added that his Government will ensure that for all the projects for which foundation stone is laid by him will be inaugurated by him.
Five New tourist and trekking routes in Ladakh were opened today as well.
PM said that Life gets easier, economically as well once a city is well connected.
He added that, Once Bilaspur-Manali-Leh rail line is completed, the distance from Delhi to Leh will be reduced.
PM laid foundation stone of the new terminal building of Kushok Bakula Rimpochee (KBR) Airport in Leh by unveiling a plaque.
The new terminal will provide seamless passenger movement with all modern amenities.
These projects will He also said that with the projects will result in better availability of electricity, improved connectivity and thus resumore tourist footfalls in the region.
It will also open better livelihood opportunities to many villages.
In addition, Protected Area Permit’s validity has been increased to 15 days.
Now tourists will be able to enjoy their journey to Leh for a longer time.
PM said that a few changes have been made in the LAHDC Act and the Council have been given more rights concerning the expenditures.
Now the Autonomous Council releases the money sent for the region’s development, he added
About the interim budget the Prime Minister told that for the welfare of Scheduled Tribes, there has been a hike in allocation by 30% and nearly 35% hike for the development of Dalits.
