Concrete homes will lead to concrete dreams: PM
Security forces given free hand to deal with the perpetrators of Pulwama terror attack: PM
Lays the Foundation Stone of Road Project in Yavatmal worth Rs 500 Crores
Humsafar Ajni (Nagpur)-Pune Train flagged off
Sahastrakund Eklavya Model Residential School inaugurated by PM
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Yavatmal in Maharashtra today.
He unveiled multiple projects in the state.
Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari and CM of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis was also present on the occasion.
PM handed over the keys to selected beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).
He said “About 14500 new houses are built at Yavatmal under PMAY.
We will achieve our target of Housing for All by 2022.
These concrete homes will lead to concrete dreams of people inhabiting them”.
He distributed certificates/cheques to women SHGs under Maharashtra State Rural Livelihoods Mission.
PM said that the program at Yavatmal is an extension of our effort to provide each and all the Panchdhara of development, that is education for children, livelihood to youth, medicine for senior citizens, irrigation to farmers and addressal of public grievances.
The PM laid the foundation stone of roads’ project worth Rs 500 Crores with the press of a button.
He flagged-off Humsafar Ajni (Nagpur) – Pune Train through video link He emphasized that connectivity is the key to development and road and railway projects will help in overall development of Yavatmal and surrounding regions.
Addressing a public gathering, the PM said, “We are undergoing a deep sorrow and anguish over the Pulwama attack.
Two brave sons of Maharashtra have also sacrificed their lives for nation.
Our thoughts are with the bereaving families.
Their sacrifices won’t go in vain.
We have given security forces full freedom to choose a time, place and manner to decide the future course of action.
If we are able to fulfil the dreams we aspired for or to develop nation it is because of the sacrifices of our brave soldiers.”
PM said that in order to conduct research on Sickle cell disease, a research center is being built at Chandrapur.
Sahastrakund Eklavya Model Residential School was inaugurated by PM on this occasion.
The school campus is spread across 15 acres and has all modern amenities.
He expressed hope that the School will fulfill the aspiration of tribal children.
It is a part of his mission to set up 1000 Eklavya Model Residential Schools across tribal areas.
PM said “we are specially committed to the cause of overall development of tribals from Jandhan to Vandhan.
While Jandhan has helped in the financial inclusion of the poor, Vandhan is helping in bringing additional income to the poor through Minor Forest Produce.
We are setting up Vandhan Kendras for value addition to Minor Forest Produce so that the tribals get a better deal for their produce.
We have also denotified bamboo as tree so that tribals can diversify their income from bamboo and its produce”.
Recalling the sacrifices made by tribal heroes in our freedom struggle, PM said that we are preserving their memories in museums and memorials across the country.
