Inaugurates and Lays Foundation stones of Development Projects worth Rs. 1400 Crores Unveils IT Policy of Dadra & Nagar Haveli
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today inaugurated and laid the Foundation Stone for several development projects at Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
He laid foundation Stone of Medical College in Sayli, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
Prime Minister released IT policy for Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
M-Aarogya mobile app and door to door waste collection, segregation and processing of Solid Waste in Dadra & Nagar Haveli was also launched.
He also distributed Gold cards to beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat and distributed Van Adhikar Patra to the beneficiaries.
Addressing the public gathering Prime Minister said today inauguration or foundation stone laying of Projects worth more than Rs 1400 crore has been undertaken.
He added that these projects are linked to various aspects of connectivity, infrastructure health, education etc.
He said New Industrial policy and new IT policy has been launched to give a boost to Industries.
PM reiterated his Government’s commitment for the welfare of the citizens of the country.
He said, we are working on the mantra of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas.
He noted that both Daman and Diu, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have been declared open defecation free.
Both the Uts have also been declared Kerosene Free.
He added that today every household in both the UTs has LPG connection, electricity connection, water connection.
PM mentioned that under Pradhan Mantri Awas yojana, poor residents of both the UTs have been allocated houses.
Gold Cards have also also been issued to the people in both UTs entitled for benefits under Ayushman bharat.
He mentioned that over the past 3 years, Investment worth Rs 9000 crores has been made in both the UTs, which has led to a series of development projects.
He said that with the foundation stone laying of Medical College, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have got its first ever Medical College.
He added that efforts are being taken to make Medical College functional this year itself.
PM added that till date both UTs had only 15 Medical seats in a year and with the setting up of this Medical College , 150 seats will be available now.
He said Medical College will provide improved medical facilities to the people.
Speaking on Ayushman Bharat, he said it is the World’s biggest Heathcare Project and everyday 10 thousand poors are accessing the benefits of this scheme.
In just 100 days since its inception over 7 lakh poor patients have been benefited.
He said that Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, a massive campaign to provide a permanent house to the poors in cities and villages is underway.
He said compared to previous government which built only 25 lakhs houses in 5 years, we have built more than 1 crore 25 lakh houses in 5 years.
Prime Minister also underlined that in Dadra and Nagar Haveli alone , 13000 women have been provided Free Gas Connections.
He said efforts are being taken to ensure welfare of the tribal people.
Under Van Dhan Yojana, Centres are being established for value addition in Forest Produce while several measures have been taken for preservation of tribal culture.
PM told that Dadra and Nagar Haveli has a huge potential for Tourism.
Several initiatives are being taken to bring this area in the map of tourism.
He said under Blue revolution work is being done for increasing the income of Fishermen.
A special Fund was set up to improve the fisheries sector.
Rs. 7500 crores was arranged under this fund to give a boost to the sector.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that 125 crore Indians are his family and he is committed to working for their welfare.
