Reviews extent of damage, relief and rescue operations in the city and other cyclone affected parts of Andhra Pradesh.
Travels extensively through Visakhapatnam city by road.
Does an aerial survey of cyclone affected Koraput and Malkangiri districts of Odisha.
Announces interim assistance of Rs. 1000 crore for Andhra Pradesh.
Appreciates role played by use of technology, and excellent coordination between Centre and State, in minimizing loss of life.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Visakhapatnam today, to personally review the relief and rescue operations in the aftermath of Cyclone Hudhud.
He travelled extensively by road through the city of Visakhapatnam, which bore the brunt of the cyclone.
He was accompanied by the Governor of Andhra Pradesh, Shri ESL Narasimhan, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri Chandrababu Naidu, and Union Minister Shri Venkaiah Naidu.
The Prime Minister reviewed the situation at a high-level meeting in the Collectorate at Visakhapatnam.
He appreciated the role played by technology, including satellite imagery and advanced weather forecasting techniques, in minimizing loss to life and property.
He also expressed satisfaction at the excellent coordination between the Union and State Governments, which helped minimize casualties.
In a statement to media after the meeting, the Prime Minister announced an interim assistance of Rs. 1000 crore to the state of Andhra Pradesh.
He also announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 2 lakhs for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the cyclone, and Rs. 50,000 to the seriously injured.
The Prime Minister said he was deeply touched by the love that tens of thousands of people of Visakhapatnam had shown him today, lining the roads of the city, despite having faced such a devastating cyclone.
Earlier, the Prime Minister also carried out an aerial survey of cyclone affected Koraput and Malkangiri districts of Odisha, as well as the city of Visakhapatnam.
The special jet of the Indian Air Force swooped low over the affected areas, as the Prime Minister was briefed about the situation.
The Prime Minister has repeatedly emphasized the need for long-term planning for disaster management, taking into account the lessons learnt from Cyclone Hudhud.
During the meeting, he also offered Andhra Pradesh full support from the Centre, towards this task.
