The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today visited Palamu, Jharkhand.
He witnessed the e-Grih Pravesh of 25,000 beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana.
He laid the Foundation Stone for the revival of North Koel (Mandal Dam) project, Kanhar Sone pipeline irrigation scheme, and strengthening of various irrigation systems and lining works.
These projects are cumulatively worth over 3500 crore rupees, the Prime Minister said.
Addressing the gathering the Prime Minister said that these projects are a key part of the Government’s effort to raise farmers’ incomes, by lowering the cost of irrigation.
The Prime Minister pointed out that the North Koel (Mandal Dam) project has remained incomplete for nearly 47 years.
He said this amounts to criminal negligence towards the farmers of this area.
He reiterated his commitment to make an honest effort to solve the problems faced by farmers.
He said 99 big irrigation projects, which have been stalled for decades, are now being fast tracked, at a cost of almost 90,000 crore rupees.
He said that the Union Government is working firmly with the vision of treating farmers as “Annadaata.”
The Prime Minister said that the Government is working with a new vision for agriculture and farmers, by trying to fundamentally solve problems associated with agriculture.
The Prime Minister mentioned the 25,000 houses being given under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana, which aims at providing housing for all by 2022.
He explained at length, how this scheme is different from other similar schemes launched in the past.
He said now selection of beneficiaries is done in a more transparent manner.
He said this is followed by online registration, and verification of the bank account of the beneficiary, to enable direct benefit transfer.
The Prime Minister said a new system has been developed for monitoring the quality of houses constructed under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana.
This includes photography and geo-tagging.
He said that houses being given now have power and cooking gas connections, and toilets.
He said alternative designs are now available, and area of the houses has also been increased.
Efforts are also made to use local materials in house construction.
He said the pace of construction has been increased, and nearly 1.25 crore houses have been built in less than five years.
He said the average time taken for construction of a house has fallen from 18 months to 12 months.
He said that now 1.25 lakh rupees is reaching the beneficiary’s account in four instalments, easily.
Earlier, the amount used to be only 70,000 rupees, he added.
He said the house is becoming a means for the overall empowerment of the poor.
He said that for the first time since independence, the Government is now thinking of the housing needs of the middle class as well, and they are being given relief on interest, along with financial assistance.
The Prime Minister said that the PM Jan Arogya Yojana, launched from Jharkhand three months ago, is today providing medical assistance to lakhs of poor.
He said over six lakh people benefited from it in the first 100 days, and today, nearly 10,000 people are benefiting from it on a daily basis.
