PM: All Indians are proud of our space scientists.
Let us all celebrate their success today.
PM: Success of the space programme is a shining symbol of what we are capable of as a Nation.
The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has congratulated the space scientists for successfully inserting the Mars Orbiter Mission into Martian orbit.
The Prime Minister was addressing scientists after witnessing the insertion procedure at ISRO in Bangalore.
The Prime Minister said history has been created by the Indian scientists reaching Mars in the first attempt.
He said India is the first to have succeeded in the very first attempt.
The Prime Minister said that Indian scientists, through their hard work and dedication, have stretched the boundaries of human enterprise and imagination.
He described the Mars Orbiter Mission as an indigenous pan-Indian effort, stretching from Bangalore to Bhubaneswar, and Faridabad to Rajkot.
Praising the scientists, Shri Narendra Modi said, the hunger of exploration and the thrill of discovery are not for the faint hearted.
He remarked that he had chosen to be present at ISRO today, unmindful of success or failure of the mission.
He exhorted scientists to set even more challenging targets for themselves, and said he had confidence that they would be able to achieve even those targets.
You have “made a habit of achieving the impossible,” the Prime Minister said.
He said Modern India must continue playing its role of Jagadguru Bharat.
Shri Narendra Modi said the success of the space programme is a shining symbol of what we are capable of as a nation.
A successful space programme generates applications across multiple domains, he added.
He said the efforts of India’s space scientists are deepening our governance, strengthening our economy and improving our lives.
Noting that the whole nation celebrates when the cricket team wins a tournament, the Prime Minister described the success of the Mars Orbiter Mission as a thousand times greater, and said all Indians must celebrate the success of our space scientists today.
Let India celebrate the achievements of its scientists.
Let students in every school and college applaud their efforts, he added.
The Governor of Karnataka, Shri Vajubhai Vala, the Chief Minister of Karnataka Shri Siddaramaiah, and Union Ministers Shri Ananth Kumar and Shri Sadanand Gowda were present on the occasion.
