PM pays respects to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar at Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai.
PM lays Foundation Stone of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Memorial.
PM lays Foundation Stones of important infrastructure projects in Mumbai.
PM calls on senior leaders Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Shri George Fernandes.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today visited Mumbai.
He paid respects to Bharat Ratna Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, at Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai.
The Prime Minister later unveiled a plaque to mark the laying of Foundation Stone of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Memorial at the Indu Mills Compound, in Mumbai.
The Prime Minister unveiled the plaque for laying of the Foundation Stone of the Fourth Container Terminal of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port at Mumbai.
At a public meeting, the Prime Minister also unveiled a plaque for the laying of Foundation Stone for two metro rail corridors.
Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister spoke of the contributions of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar to the nation.
He said a world-class memorial would be built at the Indu Mills Compound, and said this memorial should have public participation from all villages of Maharashtra.
He said that November 26th will be observed as Constitution Day, to generate awareness about Dr. Ambedkar’s contributions.
The Prime Minister strongly refuted all rumours about any review of the reservations policy.
He said no one could take away the benefits that had been given by Dr. Ambedkar.
The Prime Minister appreciated the work being done by Maharashtra Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavis, in areas such as speeding up infrastructure development, and the “Jal Sanchay” (water storage) facilities in rural areas.
The Prime Minister praised Union Ministers Shri Suresh Prabhu and Shri Nitin Gadkari for the work being done by them.
He emphasized the importance of port-led development for the economic development of the country and the success of the Make in India initiative.
Earlier this morning, the Prime Minister made a courtesy call on senior leaders Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Shri George Fernandes on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan.
