The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, addressed the ‘Campaign for Drugs Free India’, organized by the Art of Living Foundation, through video message.
The message was played at an event at Guru Jambeshwar University at Hisar, today.
In the address, the Prime Minister complimented the efforts of Sri Sri RaviShankar and the Art of Living Foundation for their contribution towards tackling the drug menace in the country.
Terming, drugs as a great menace to society, Prime Minister said that as per WHO estimates, over three crore people around the world are suffering from drug addiction.
The Prime Minister said that it is alarming to see many youngsters getting addicted to substance abuse.
“Drugs are not cool.
It is a big misconception that drugs are a style statement”, PM said.
Shri Narendra Modi said that in addition to the health problems and destruction of families due to substance abuse, narcotics trade is a great threat to the safety and security of the country.
He added that narcotics trade is one of the biggest sources of income for terrorists and anti-national elements, and the money sourced by these elements through drugs trade is used to destabilize the nation.
The Prime Minister urged the young generation to say ‘No to Drugs’ for a healthy life, a happy family, a better future and for the safety and security of the nation.
He said that those having self-confidence and self-belief will not easily fall prey to drugs use.
He also asked the young generation to support and help those reeling from drug addiction.
Only through conversations, counselling and continued love and support, we can bring those under addiction to the path of rehabilitation, PM added.
The Prime Minister highlighted the various initiatives taken by the Union Government to curb the menace of drug addiction.
In this context, he mentioned about the National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction, initiated in 2018,which focuses on awareness generation, capacity building, rehabilitation and specific intervention in vulnerable areas to ensure drug demand reduction by 2023.
Students from colleges all across the country, listened to the Prime Minister’s address through video conference.
