The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today outlined his vision for “Skill India” as he launched the “National Skill Development Mission” in New Delhi.
Asserting that his Government has declared a war on poverty and is determined to win it, the Prime Minister said that each poor, underprivileged youth is a soldier in this war.
Noting that India will have a surplus manpower of 4 to 5 crore over the next decade, the Prime Minister emphasized the need to provide this youthful manpower with skills and ability to tackle global challenges, and warned that the demographic dividend would otherwise become a challenge in itself.
He said that if the 20th century saw India’s foremost technical institutes – the IITs – make a name for themselves globally, the 21st century required that India’s ITIs (Industrial Training Institutes), acquire global recognition for producing quality skilled manpower.
The Prime Minister said India can become the world’s largest provider of skilled workforce for the world.
In order to prepare for this, Shri Narendra Modi said there is a need for mapping of manpower requirements, not just in India, but globally as well.
The Prime Minister called for constant updating of training programmes and syllabi to ensure that the youth is exposed to latest technology and industry environment.
He said the Government would work to promote both apprenticeship and entrepreneurs.
He said it is important to predict the possibilities of the future, and prepare for them today itself.
The Prime Minister unveiled the Skill logo, launched the National Skill Development Mission, and Released the National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, 2015.
He also launched the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana and Skill Loan Scheme.
The Prime Minister felicitated the six Indian medal winners of the World Skill Oceania competition.
Union Ministers Shri Arun Jaitley, Shri Manohar Parrikar, Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Shri Suresh Prabhu, Shri Ananth Kumar, Shri JP Nadda, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Shri Anant Geete, Shri Piyush Goyal, and Shri Thaawar Chand Gehlot were present on the occasion.
