Taking his innovative use of social media and latest technology to the next level, the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today addressed the 18th National Conference on e-Governance through Twitter.
This is the first time such an address has taken place through Twitter.
The Prime Minister tweeted: “Good morning friends!
I am delighted to join the 18th National Conference on e-Governance through Twitter.
I wanted to personally attend the conference but was unable to do so.
However, there was no way I could miss interacting with you.
I thought- despite not attending, how can I connect with you.
That is when I decided to use technology and talk to you via this medium.
Am told this conference brings together several delegates from Central and State Governments, Armed Forces, Academia, Industry and private sector.
The participants and their expertise make this conference a perfect forum to look at the way forward to effective and efficient e-Governance.
I am also told that 22 awards will be presented in 12 categories.
I congratulate all the award winners and laud their efforts.
Am particularly delighted that the theme of this year`s conference revolves around digital governance, skill development and employability.
Centre is committed to realising dream of a Digital India, with a vision to make India a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.
We are actively working to create a robust digital infrastructure that would serve the interests of our citizens and transform their lives.
E-Governance is an essential part of our dream of Digital India.
The more technology we infuse in Governance, the better it is for India.
I am also certain that technology and e-Governance will make processes simpler and remove several obstacles slowing the pace of work and progress.
While we look at e-Governance, let us think about ‘mobile first’ and thus give importance to m-Governance (mobile governance).
I urge you to explore ways to provide as many services as possible through mobiles.
Let us bring the world into our mobile phones!
The youthful energy that our Nation possesses is our prized asset.
Giving an impetus to skill development through technology is essential.
Scale and speed at which we have to take India`s development journey requires maximum and smart utilisation of latest technology.
I am sure this all-India conference will become a focal point of several innovative ideas that will help our Nation in the years to come.
Once again, my best wishes to everyone in the conference.
Thank you very much.”
Recently, during President Obama`s visit to India, the Prime Minister shared through “SoundCloud” the special episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat.’
He also shared a native video on Facebook and an audio tweet and video tweet of glimpses of his speech at the NCC parade on 28th January.
