• Education should become a force for the Nation’s character building.
• Dialogue with students: Enjoy childhood.
Don’t let the child in you die.
• We must restore respect for the teacher in our society.
• Can’t India dream of exporting good teachers?
• Children can contribute to nation-building through cleanliness, saving electricity and water.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called for education to be made a force for national character building.
In a unique interaction with students from across the country on Teachers’ Day, the Prime Minister said the relevance of Teachers` Day on the birthday of Dr. Radhakrishnan needs to be reinterpreted in a changed world.
He said it is essential to highlight the importance of a teacher in society, and restore respect for the teacher in our society.
Only then can the teacher mould our new generation, he said.
The Prime Minister said there was a huge demand for good teachers worldwide.
Can India not dream of exporting good teachers to the world, the Prime Minister asked.
Highlighting the need for educating the girl child, the Prime Minister referred to his Independence Day address and said he had spoken of building a separate toilet for girls in every school within a year.
He said this was essential to reduce the drop-out rate among girls.
The Prime Minister also expressed happiness at being asked about initiatives for education of the girl child by a female student from Dantewada, Chhattisgarh.
He said, such a question, coming from a girl in Bastar, where Maoism has shed so much blood, should awaken the country.
Interacting with students and answering a range of questions posed by them, the Prime Minister referred to his recent visit to Japan, and how he was impressed by their education system.
He said in Japan, the teachers and students together keep the school clean – this is part of their character building.
Can we not make it a part of our national character building, the Prime Minister asked.
The Prime Minister also mentioned the emphasis on discipline, technology and scientific temperament, in Japan’s education system.
In response to a question on whether he would launch a programme on the lines of “Vaanche Gujarat” (Read Gujarat) at the National level, the Prime Minister referred to the Digital India mission, and said he hoped everyone would be able to get connectivity and access to knowledge that they needed.
In response to another question, the Prime Minister highlighted the importance of skill development.
The Prime Minister also suggested to eminent citizens that they should try to teach at least one period a week in a nearby school.
He said children could also contribute to nation-building by doing simple things such as striving for cleanliness, and helping to conserve electricity and water.
He urged students to play hard, besides studying.
He said students must enjoy, and not let the child in them die.
