The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today expressed anger at self-styled “gau-rakshaks” (cow-protectors) who “run shops in the name of cow protection,” and urged action against criminals who masquerade as protectors of the cow.
In a unique “townhall” interaction that marked two years of MyGov, – the Government’s web platform for participatory governance – the Prime Minister asked State Governments to prepare a dossier of such people.
Mentioning how cows were dying due to plastic consumption, he urged all those who were genuinely concerned about the welfare of cows to devote their efforts to ensuring that cows do not consume plastic.
The Prime Minister answered a range of questions on various subjects such as good governance, foreign policy, and participatory democracy.
He said that the spirit of democracy is incomplete if one thinks the citizen’s role stops at voting.
Participative democracy is essential, he emphasized.
He said ‘last mile delivery’ is as important as policies, and the benefits must reach the intended beneficiaries.
He said good governance means those processes that are redundant do not exist.
Grievance redressal systems are the biggest strengths of a democracy, he added.
Shri Narendra Modi said if there is one sector that can power the economy, it is agriculture.
Mentioning the Rurban Mission, the Prime Minister said that his vision was to provide modern amenities to the rural areas, while retaining the soul of villages.
On the subject of handloom, the Prime Minister described “Khadi for Nation, Khadi for Fashion” as one of the principles that could serve as a guide for the people.
The Prime Minister described “India First” as the central theme of his foreign policy.
He said the Indian diaspora has played a key role in connecting India with other nations.
The Prime Minister also touched upon the subjects of healthcare and tourism in the course of his interaction, which lasted for about 100 minutes.
Earlier, the Prime Minister interacted briefly on stage with contributors to the Mann Ki Baat Radio Programme, and the MyGov platform.
The Prime Minister launched a new PMO App, and also met the young contributors who had helped develop this App.
