The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s Address in the Lok Sabha.
He thanked the various Members of the House, for adding vigour into the debate, and sharing insightful points.
Stating that there is something very special about ‘Jan Shakti’ – people’s power – the Prime Minister said that it is due to this ‘Jan Shakti’ that a person born in a poor family can become the Prime Minister of India.
The Prime Minister said that there are many people like him, who may not have had the opportunity to die for the nation during the freedom struggle, but who, being born in free India, are living for, and serving the nation.
Stating that faith in Jan Shakti will give good results, he called upon the Members to understand and appreciate the inherent strength of our people, and take India to newer heights.
Explaining the rationale behind the advancement of the budget date, the Prime Minister said this would ensure better utilization of funds.
Similarly, he said that the transport sector in the country now requires a comprehensive approach, which is possible by having just one Union Budget.
The Prime Minister expressed satisfaction at the change of discourse since he assumed office – stating that from a time when the discussion was on how much money is lost through scams, the discussion is now on how much black money has been recovered.
The Prime Minister declared that his struggle is for the poor, and this struggle to give the poor their due, will continue.
He said that this Government does not see everything from the prism of elections, and the interests of the nation are supreme for the Government.
Comparing demonetization to the Swachh Bharat Mission, the Prime Minister said it is a movement to clean India from corruption and black money.
Responding to criticism of frequent changes in the rules related to demonetization, the Prime Minister said that this was done to stay a step ahead of those who wanted to find loopholes in the exercise.
He noted that rules for MNREGA were also changed over a thousand times.
The Prime Minister said steps like crop insurance have been taken in a way that facilitates and benefits farmers.
The Prime Minister also praised the nation’s armed forces, and said that they are fully capable of defending the nation.
