On climate
Recalling his initial address, the Prime Minister said that in a very simple way, he spoke of the vision for New India, and about the Vedas written 5000 years ago.
He said the Vedas have said that milking of nature is permitted, but exploitation of nature is not.
He said that he had been asked this question three days ago in Germany, and he had said at that time that whether or not there is a Paris accord, India’s traditions have been to hand over a clean planet, with clean air, to our children, so that they too can live well.
He emphasized that the issue here is not about being on one side or the other, but about being on the side of generations yet to be born.
On India Russia relations, and on China
The Prime Minister said that the world is no longer bipolar as it was a few decades ago.
He said that when we discuss global relations, we must understand that the whole world is interconnected and interdependent.
He said every country is connected to every other in some way, and there may be areas of differences, as well as of cooperation.
Reiterating that relations between India and Russia are strong, the Prime Minister said that the whole world will read the St. Petersburg Declaration carefully, to understand this relationship, and see how we move forward.
With China, the Prime Minister said that though there is a border dispute, not a single shot has been fired across the border in the last forty years.
Economic relations are expanding, the Prime Minister said.
He said that the relationship between any two countries, should not be seen from the prism of a third.
He said that in BRICS, all member countries are working together.
In this context, he mentioned the BRICS Bank as an example.
India believes in the credo of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, the Prime Minister said, adding that we wish to take everyone together on the path to development.
On Terrorism
The Prime Minister said that in the eighties and nineties, the world did not fully understand terrorism and the dangers it posed.
He said India has been a victim of cross border terrorism for forty years.
He said that it was only after 9/11 that the world understood the true horrors of terrorism, and the fact that it has no boundaries.
The Prime Minister said that the need of the hour is for all humanitarian forces to unite to save the world against terrorism.
The Prime Minister regretted that for forty years, the United Nations has not been able to come to an agreement on the definition of terrorism.
He welcomed President Putin’s assertion yesterday that he will raise the matter at the United Nations.
Noting that terrorists cannot manufacture weapons or print currency, the Prime Minister said that clearly, terrorists obtain these things from certain countries.
He said that the whole world must realise that this is an issue that concerns humanity, and only then will we be able to overcome terrorism.
On global trade
The Prime Minister said that India believes in an open economy.
He said that in global trade, all countries make adjustments for each other, and should help each other.
