Holds bilateral talks with the UK PM.
Pays homage at Gandhi Statue in Parliament Square, London.
Delivers speech in British Parliament.
Addresses the City of London at Guildhall.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, arrived in London on November 12th, 2015.
He was accorded a guard of honour and an official welcome by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Mr. David Cameron.
The Prime Minister held delegation-level talks with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
During his press statement after the talks, the Prime Minister said that he is delighted to visit the United Kingdom.
Speaking in Hindi, the Prime Minister said:-
“This is a relationship of immense importance to us.
The familiarity of history, the extraordinary people-to-people ties and our shared values give it a special character.
We also have vibrant and growing partnerships across all areas – trade and investment, defence and security, science and education, clean energy and health, technology and innovation, and culture.
We have a broad range of shared interests at the international level that are vital to both countries.
We have agreed to intensify our political dialogue and hold regular bilateral summits.
We have decided to turn our shared values into a partnership to support development in other regions of the world.
And, we have committed to deepen cooperation across all areas.
The conclusion of the civil nuclear agreement is a symbol of our mutual trust and our resolve to combat climate change.
The agreement for cooperation in India’s Global Centre for Clean Energy Partnerships will strengthen safety and security in the global nuclear industry.
We attach great value to defence and security cooperation with UK, including regular exercises and defence trade and collaboration.
This cooperation will grow.
I am also pleased that UK will participate in the International Fleet Review in India in February 2016.
UK will also be a strong partner in India’s defence modernization plans, including our Make in India mission in defence sector.
Our economic partnership is quite robust and a key pillar of our partnership.
I expressed confidence that this relationship grow rapidly in the years ahead, given the size and scale of opportunities in a rapidly expanding India and Britain’s own formidable economic strengths.
UK is already the third largest investor in India.
There is more investment from India in UK than in rest of European Union combined.
We will launch a new fast track mechanism for UK investments in India.
The revival of India-UK CEO Forum is a welcome step.
We will also increasingly raise funds in London’s financial market.
I am pleased, but also believe it is natural, that we will issue a Railways Rupee Bond in London.
This is where the journey of Indian Railways began.”
In the course of his interaction with media after the Joint Press Statement, the Prime Minister said India cannot tolerate any incident which violates the fundamental values of society.
He said India is a vibrant democracy which is committed to protection of individual rights under the Constitution.
In his speech at the Parliament of UK, the Prime Minister said:-
“the motto of Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikas, is our vision of a Nation, in which every citizen belongs, participates and prospers.
It is not just a call for economic inclusion.
It is also a celebration of our diversity; the creed for social harmony; and, a commitment to individual liberties and rights.
This is the timeless ethos of our culture; this is the basis of our constitution; and, this will be the foundation of our future.”
The Prime Minister addressed the business community of the City of London, at Guildhall.
The Prime Minister said, “UK and India have known each other very well since several centuries.
Our system of Governance is also based largely on the Westminster model. – Our institutions know to interact with each other; – Our people know to work with each other; – Our businesses know to grow with each other
That is the reason that UK is among India’s major trading partners.
UK is also the third largest foreign investor in India.
And I must add- this is not one sided.
India has emerged as the third largest source of FDI for UK.
However, there is significant potential for India and UK to further strengthen their economic ties.
We have to effectively leverage the mutual understanding which is there for each other.
We are particularly keen to develop the sectors where UK is strong.
We are working hard to create conducive conditions for this engagement.
A strong Indian community here keeps pushing us for better and better integration with UK.”
The Prime Minister paid homage at the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Parliament Square.
The iconic London landmarks of Tower Bridge and London Eye were draped in the colours of India – saffron, white and green.
Prime Minister Cameron hosted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a private dinner at Chequers, his country-house retreat.
