Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today met the Prime Minister of Bhutan Mr. Tshering Tobgay, on the sidelines of the Vibrant Gujarat summit in Gandhinagar.
The two leaders discussed security cooperation in the light of recent incidents of violence in Assam.
The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts made by Bhutan for intensive vigilance in the border areas and real time sharing of information.
Cooperation in the Hydropower sector was also discussed.
A total of ten Indian-assisted hydropower projects will have a combined capacity of well over 6400 MW by 2022-23.
In his meeting with Lord Ian Livingstone, the Minister of Trade and Investment, United Kingdom, the Prime Minister appreciated the extensive cooperation extended by the UK as a partner country for the Vibrant Gujarat summit.
Both sides expressed keenness to deepen cooperation in areas such as education, science and technology.
The Prime Minister invited investment from UK, especially in sectors such as telecom, defence, railways and other manufacturing.
Counter-terror cooperation was also discussed particularly in light of the recent attacks in Paris.
The Prime Minister met Australian Trade Minister Mr. Andrew Robb and the Premier of New South Wales Mike Baird.
Trade and counter-terror cooperation dominated the discussions.
The Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) also came up for discussion.
In his meeting with Mr. S Iswaran, Second Minister for Trade and Industry, Singapore, the Prime Minister expressed happiness at Singapore’s participation in Vibrant Gujarat as a partner country.
The Prime Minister said he looked forward to Singapore President Tony Tan`s visit to India next month.
Both sides discussed cooperation in sectors such as smart cities, urban planning, water management and skill development.
The Prime Minister welcomed the Deputy Prime Minister of Poland, Mr. Janusz Piechocinski, on his first visit to India.
Both sides discussed cooperation in the mining sector, and cooperation in defence manufacturing as part of the Make in India vision.
The Prime Minister met Mr. Yosuke Takagi, Minister for Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan.
Both sides agreed to quickly implement the agreement between Prime Minister Abe and Prime Minister Modi on doubling Japanese investment in India.
