Situation in West Asia poses a grave threat to regional and global peace and security.
It affects the lives of seven million Indian citizens living in the Gulf. · Remaining mute spectators to countries being torn up can have grave consequences.
BRICS should explore how to help end the conflict in Iraq. · We must put collective pressure on States to deny sanctuaries and support to terrorists. · Corrective action must begin with the reform of institutions of global governance, like the UN Security Council and IMF.
Expressing concern over “grave instability that is fast seeping across borders” in West Asia, the Prime Minister, ShriNarendraModi, hassaid that remaining mute spectators to countries being torn up, can have grave consequences.
In his statement on “International Governance and Regional Crisis” at the first working session of the Sixth BRICS Summit in Fortaliza, Brazil, he called upon the member-countries of BRICS to explore how they can work together to help end the conflict in Iraq.
Stating that the situation in West Asia poses a grave threat to regional, and global, peace and security, the Prime Minister said India is particularly concerned because this affects the lives of seven million Indian citizens, living in the Gulf region.
Drawing attention to the continuing suffering of the Afghan people, ShriNarendraModi said “we must help Afghanistan fight the forces of terrorism.”
He declared that India would continue to assist Afghanistan “in building its capacity; in governance, security and economic development.”
Expressing concern over developments in Syria, the Prime Minister said India stands fully prepared to play a part in any peace process.
He also expressed concern at the recent outbreak of violence between Israel and Palestine.
Calling for zero-tolerance towards terrorism, the Prime Minister said humanity must unite, and isolate terrorist forces, especially States that flout basic norms.
He urged the BRICS grouping to “put collective pressure on States to deny sanctuaries and support to terrorists.”
Describing terrorism as a proxy war, he said the international community has not been able to combat terror effectively “due to different yardsticks.”
The Prime Minister called for an early adoption by the United Nations, of the draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism.
Stating that cyber security has become a major concern, ShriNarendraModi urged BRICS countries to take the lead in preserving cyber space as a “global common good.”
The Prime Minister said the world must unite as one, to decisively confront global challenges.
He said corrective action must begin with the reform of institutions of global governance.
ShriNarendraModi said institutions like the UN Security Council and IMF need urgent reform – they must become more representative and reflect ground realities.
