Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today highlighted the strength of media, and the positive role it could play in transforming society.
Speaking at the Inauguration of the Platinum Jubilee Celebrations of the Assam Tribune, the Prime Minister expressed his views on how journalism should be in today’s world.
He said the choice before the media was to like a fly or like a bee.
A bee hovers on flowers and produces honey, but can also sting sharply if required, the Prime Minister said.
He said that such journalism, which carries the strength and qualities of a honey bee, has been a force for good of people.
The Prime Minister said he is fortunate to be among those who demonstrate the power of the pen, and show how it can be the vital life-force and conscience of society.
He said newspapers not just give news, but also mould our thinking and open a window to the world.
In a broader context, media is a means of transforming society, he added.
The Prime Minister appreciated the founder editor of the Assam Tribune, Shri RG Baruah, for his zeal and commitment in launching and running the newspaper in the most adverse circumstances.
He said Mr. Baruah had shown his commitment to social causes, by helping create sports infrastructure and showing the world the beauty of Assam’s Bihu festival, and Assamese music.
Else, how would India have got the opportunity to appreciate and admire Bhupen Hazarika, he added.
He also said the Assam Tribune has managed to gain the trust of the people of Assam over the last 75 years.
The Prime Minister also referred to the trend of the media of quoting “reliable sources.”
He said he would prefer a newspaper which quoted “reliable sources” least often, as quoting sources lowers the credibility of the publication.
The Prime Minister said media must reflect on how media can strengthen the society and how media can use modern technology towards this end.
The Prime Minister also released a souvenir on the occasion.
The Chief Minister of Assam Shri Tarun Gogoi, the MoS (IC) Sports Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, the MoS Home Shri Kiren Rijiju, and the Editor-Chairman of the Assam Tribune Shri P. G. Baruah were present on the occasion.
