PM: Amendment of Land Acquisition Act essential for creating rural infrastructure.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said amendment of the existing Land Acquisition Act is essential to enable creation of rural infrastructure including roads, houses for poor, schools, hospitals and irrigation projects.
The Prime Minister made a strong appeal to all sections of the Rajya Sabha, to support initiatives of the Union Government that would enable fulfilment of the mandate for development given by the people of India.
He also made a passionate appeal to farmers not to be misled by those who were trying to project the Government’s initiatives for development, as being “anti-farmer.”
Shri Narendra Modi was addressing a large gathering of farmers and people from rural areas, on the occasion of the dedication to the Nation of Stage-1 (2x600MW) and laying of Foundation Stone of Stage-2 (2x660MW) of Shree Singaji Thermal Power Project, at Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh.
The Prime Minister said the large gathering of people from rural areas, to grace the occasion of the dedication to the nation of a power plant, even on the festival of Holi, shows how committed people are towards the cause of development.
The Prime Minister described energy as the key to development.
Describing energy as an integral part of modern life, the Prime Minister reiterated his commitment to deliver power to all.
He said power generation has gone up by about 11 per cent in the last 9 to 10 months, since the new Government assumed office.
The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of saving energy, and mentioned the Government’s programme of LED bulbs for homes and street-lighting.
Shri Narendra Modi said the Government is committed to curbing corruption, and gave the example of successful auctioning of coal blocks, which would also benefit Madhya Pradesh in a big way.
The Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and the Union MoS(IC) for Power Shri Piyush Goyal were present on the occasion.
