PM replies to the motion of thanks on President’s Address in the Rajya Sabha
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s Address in the Rajya Sabha.
He said that several members have shared their views and there was considerable discussion on demonetization.
The Prime Minister said that the fight against corruption and black money is not a political fight, and it is not to single out any particular party.
He emphasized that corruption has adversely impacted the aspirations of the poor and the middle class.
He said that those who are cheating the system will have to be dealt with toughness, so that the hands of the poor are strengthened.
The Prime Minister said that about 700 Maoists surrendered after demonetization and this number is increasing.
Shri Narendra Modi said that there is today a horizontal divide – in which – on one side are the people of India and the Union Government, and on the other side are a group of political leaders.
The Prime Minister said that today, India is working to correct the wrongs that have entered our society.
He said that we should continuously move forward for practical change, and never underestimate the strength of our country.
The Prime Minister said that institutions should be kept above politics, and the Reserve Bank of India should not be dragged into controversy.
The Prime Minister said that on matters related to governance, a lot has been done which has given strength to the common man.
He mentioned the transparency that has been brought in the Government procurement process, through Government e Marketplace.
The Prime Minister congratulated the media for furthering the message of Swachh Bharat and creating awareness.
He added that sanitation coverage in the rural areas has increased.
He said that cleanliness should become a public movement, and we should all work towards this cause.
The Prime Minister said that under the “Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat” initiative, we all have the opportunity to learn about and appreciate the culture and capabilities of various parts of the country.
