PM: Indian IT industry must focus on cyber security.
PM urges IT industry to innovate, says immense potential for new applications.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called upon the Indian IT Industry to focus on meeting the global challenge of cyber-security.
Stating that the entire world is concerned about this issue, the Prime Minister said Indian IT professionals could do a lot for cyber-safety of digital assets across the world.
The Prime Minister was speaking at a special event to mark the completion of NASSCOM’s 25th year.
Praising NASSCOM for its contribution to the IT sector in India, the Prime Minister noted that rarely has an organization transformed into a movement in such a short span of time.
He added that it was due to the success of India’s youth in the IT sector, that the world started looking at India differently.
Referring to the theme of today’s function: IT = India Tomorrow, the Prime Minister said there was immense potential for the Indian IT sector to innovate and provide mobile applications to deliver citizen centric services and mobile governance.
Speaking of the Digital India initiative, the Prime Minister said e-governance also implies easy governance, and economical governance.
He said Government is building IT infrastructure, and would adopt innovations by the IT industry.
Talking about digital databases, he said the world would need “digital godowns” in the near future.
He said the digital divide in India needs to be eliminated.
The Prime Minister explained how technology was helping to curb corruption.
He gave the examples of the coal block auctions, and Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG subsidy, in this regard.
The Prime Minister called for the Indian IT sector to boost tourism in India.
One way of doing this, he said, was to make virtual museums showcasing India’s heritage.
He called upon industry leaders to contribute towards creating e-libraries for schools.
The Prime Minister presented “Impact awards” for contribution to industry.
He also launched the NASSCOM Innovate for India Challenge, to encourage innovation in the sector.
