Highlights progress achieved in bilateral ties in last 100 days .
Urges Nepal to adopt a Constitution by consensus.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today highlighted the rapid and multi-faceted progress made in bilateral ties with Nepal over the last 100 days.
In his remarks at the official handover and inaugural ceremony of the National Trauma Center in Kathmandu today, the Prime Minister said relations between India and Nepal were now powered by the ‘engine of trust.’
He said he was fortunate to be back in Nepal again after a short period.
He said he had visited many places across the world in the intervening period, but he could never forget the love he had received in Nepal.
The Prime Minister said the Trauma Center would save lives in distress, and was therefore a symbol of abiding hope and friendship between the two countries.
He said India would always stand by Nepal for upgradation of the trauma center, as required.
The Prime Minister he understands the pain and disappointment of the people of Janakpur, Lumbini and Muktinath, owing to his not being able to visit these places due to pressing commitments.
He added that he would visit these places in the near future.
The Prime Minister complimented the Prime Minister of Nepal, the political parties and officers of Nepal for removing obstacles and speeding up work which had been held up for the last 25 to 30 years.
He said he feels satisfied, because a happy Nepal gives India a reason to smile.
He said work on hydropower projects and transmission lines was now moving forward.
He also mentioned the one billion dollar line of credit, and the Kathmandu Delhi bus service.
He said he had asked his officers to explore the possibility of the buses being wi-fi enabled.
He said India had reduced the rate for phone calls by 35 percent, and urged Nepal to also move in this direction.
He said a mobile soil testing laboratory would be gifted to Nepal.
He said it would now be possible to bring 500 and 1000 Indian rupee notes upto Rs. 25,000 into Nepal.
He highlighted people to people contact and youth exchange programmes, saying the first batch of 450 University students from Nepal was currently in Kolkata.
He said he had received many good suggestions on how to establish the e-library he had mentioned during his earlier visit.
Thus the Prime Minister said, India would take care of Nepal’s highways (by fixing connecting roads) as well as i-ways.
He said defence ties between the two countries were also deepening, and spoke of the Dhruv helicopter being handed over to Nepal today.
The Prime Minister made an impassioned plea for Nepal to complete its Constitution.
He said the Constitution should be made by consensus, and not by majority.
He said this would be in Nepal’s interest and it would require the mind of a sage (Rishi-Mann) among the members of the Constituent Assembly.
