Following is the text of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s departure statement prior to his visit to Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
“I will be visiting Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore on 29 May – 2 June 2018.
India has a robust strategic partnership with all the three countries.
On 29 May, I will be in Jakarta on the invitation of Indonesian President Joko Widodo.
This is my first visit to Indonesia as Prime Minister.
I am looking forward to my discussions with President Widodo on 30 May, as also to our joint interaction with the India-Indonesia CEOs Forum.
I will also address the Indian Community in Indonesia.
India and Indonesia enjoy strong and friendly ties and share deep historical and civilizational linkages.
Both countries are multi ethnic, multi religious, plural and open societies.
I am confident that my visit to Indonesia will create greater synergy between Asia’s two largest democracies and further elevate our bilateral ties.
On 31 May, on my way to Singapore, I will make a brief halt in Malaysia to congratulate the new Malaysian leadership.
I look forward to meet Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamad.
In Singapore I will be focusing on enhancing India-Singapore partnership in areas of Fintech, skill development, urban planning and artificial intelligence.
Singapore entities have become major partners with India in areas like urban development, planning, smart cities and infrastructure development.
My visit in Singapore presents an opportunity for both countries to engage further.
On 31 May, I will visit the India-Singapore enterprise and innovation exhibition.
I will also address a business and community event followed by a roundtable meeting with select top CEOs of Singapore to discuss business and investment opportunities.
On 1 June, I will call on Singapore President Halimah Yacob.
I will also hold delegation level talks with Singapore Prime Minister Lee, and am looking forward to my visit to the Nanyang Technological University where I would interact with young students.
That evening, I will deliver the keynote address at Shangri-La Dialogue.
This will be the first time that an Indian Prime Minister would deliver this address.
It would be an opportunity to articulate India’s point of view on regional security issues and maintenance of peace and stability in the region.
On 2 June, I will unveil a plaque at Clifford Pier, where Gandhiji’s ashes were immersed in sea on 27 March 1948.
I would also visit some places of worship that have civilizational linkages with India.
The last element of my programme would be a visit to the Changi Naval Base in Singapore where I will visit the Indian Naval Ship INS Satpura and interact with officers and sailors of the Indian Navy and Royal Singapore Navy.
I am confident that my visit to Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore will provide a further boost to our Act East Policy and enhance our relations and engagements with all the three countries.”
