The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said Lord Buddha’s timeless message of love and compassion could help rid the world of the problems of war and violence.
“Agar yuddh se mukti chaahiye, to Buddh ki raah par milegi,” the Prime Minister said.
In his remarks at the International Buddh Poornima Diwas Celebration in New Delhi today, the Prime Minister said that the whole world had acknowledged that the 21st century would be Asia’s century, and added that Buddha’s teachings would be the inspiration and guiding spirit for Asia, as it showed the world the path to relief from problems of conflict and hatred.
The Prime Minister said that the gathering today, is conscious of the suffering that the recent earthquake has caused in Nepal – the land of Buddha’s birth.
But he added that this is also an opportunity for everyone to follow Lord Buddha’s message of “karuna” (compassion), and to wipe the tears of those suffering in Nepal.
The Prime Minister said that Lord Buddha was conscious towards both individual emancipation and social reform.
He said that the importance given to the “Sangh” highlights how Lord Buddha sensed the importance of uniting people towards a noble cause.
He said Lord Buddha’s teaching of “Atta Deepo Bhavah” – “Be your own light” – was one of the greatest management lessons ever, contained in just three words.
The Prime Minister recalled his visits to Buddhist temples recently in Japan and Sri Lanka, and also in China when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat.
He said that the profound spiritual consciousness that pervaded these temples, must be forged into a powerful force for good in the world.
He said some people called Buddha “the light of the east,” and added that in his opinion, this was an underestimation, and Buddha was in fact a source of inspiration for the entire universe.
The Union Minister of State (I/C) for Culture Shri Mahesh Sharma, the Union Minister of State for Home, Shri Kiren Rijiju, and the Ven.
Lama Lobzang, Secretary General, International Buddhist Confederation, were present on the occasion.
