The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today visited Bengaluru.
The Prime Minister received German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the Bosch Engineering and Innovation in Bengaluru.
The two leaders were given an overview of the solutions being developed to serve the common man, in areas such as detection of eye disease, and immediate assistance to accident victims.
At the Bosch Vocational Centre, the two leaders were briefed on skill development programmes being run for school drop-outs.
The Prime Minister and the German Chancellor attended a business forum organized by NASSCOM and the Fraunhofer Institute.
In his address, the Prime Minister reiterated that at a time of global slowdown, India represents a bright spot for investments.
The Prime Minister gave an overview of the steps taken by the Government to address the long-pending concerns of investors.
He also talked about the various opportunities for investment that exist in India.
“We want your active involvement in translating our dreams into reality.
Our commitment and aggressiveness to achieve the goal in a faster and effective manner offers immense opportunities to German Companies.
These opportunities range from building 50 million houses to setting up 100 smart cities; modernization of our railway network and stations to setting up of new railway corridors; generation of 175 GW of renewable energy to construction of transmission and distribution networks, National Highways, bridges, and Metro rails.
Such a huge potential for creation and production will not be available in any one country.
More importantly, no one place on the earth can offer the potential for consumption on such a massive scale.
We are trying to power this potential through our campaigns like Digital India and Skill India.
To tap the energy fully, we have launched the Start up India Campaign,” the Prime Minister said.
“It is the software of India that will move the hardware across the world; It is the talent of India that will master the technology; It is the market of India that will motivate manufacturing.
Therefore, it makes strong business sense to be in India.
It makes even better business sense to Make in India,” the Prime Minister said.
“I laud Chancellor Merkel for her vision where German engineering and Indian IT fuse to create world class products.
As she leaves India, gratitude to Chancellor Merkel.
This has been a productive visit, which has taken India-Germany ties to newer heights,” the Prime Minister tweeted.
