The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, met the Prime Minister of UK, Mr. David Cameron, in the morning at Chequers.
He planted an oak sapling, and the two leaders exchanged gifts.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and the Prime Minister of UK, Mr. David Cameron, attended the UK-India CEO Forum.
In his opening remarks, Prime Minister Cameron referred to Prime Minister Modi’s vision and intent for transforming India.
Shri Narendra Modi spoke of the historical ties and complementarities between the two countries.
He said economic ties are extremely important elements of the relationship between countries.
He referred to the Union Government’s initiatives such as “Make in India”, emphasis on infrastructure, opening up of FDI in various sectors, and commitments towards 50 million new houses by 2022 and 175 GigaWatts of renewable energy.
He said investment by British companies in India would be a win-win partnership for both countries.
The Queen hosted lunch for Prime Minister Modi.
Gifts were exchanged during the meeting.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, said India’s immense diversity is its speciality, pride and strength.
Addressing a massive gathering of the British-Indian Community at the Wembley Stadium in London, in the presence of UK Prime Minister David Cameron, the Prime Minister spoke of the great contributions of the Sikh community and of India’s Sufi tradition.
He recalled his meeting with the Sikh community in London yesterday, and said he shared their pain, understood their problems and was working to resolve them.
Expounding his vision of India, in his speech which lasted more than one hour, the Prime Minister recalled Imran Khan of Alwar, Rajasthan, who has made about 50 education apps and distributed them free.
He also recalled a Sarpanch in Haryana, who had responded to his Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao call, with a “Selfie with Daughter” campaign, which eventually became a global success.
He said he was sure of India’s bright future because his vision of India, was the India of Imran Khan who created and gave education apps for free; and of the Sarpanch who had conceived Selfie with India.
He said there are countless such people in India.
The Prime Minister said all major religions of the world are present in India, and in big numbers too.
He said the Indian diaspora carries these values with it wherever they go, and hence they are great ambassadors for India.
The Prime Minister spoke of his Government’s initiatives so far, and of his plans especially on Swachh Bharat and Clean Energy, to transform the lives of India’s citizens.
He said India would lead a global “Solar Alliance” of countries blessed with abundant solar radiation, to pursue the goal of economical solar energy generation.
