PM’s 14th interaction through PRAGATI
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today chaired his fourteenth interaction through PRAGATI – the ICT-based, multi-modal platform for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress towards handling and resolution of grievances related to school education and literacy.
He said that there is now an expectation among the people, that the Government will be able to resolve these grievances.
The Prime Minister specifically asked concerned officials to systematize the measures being taken by them to address grievances of students.
He instructed them to use all available technological tools to ensure that school-children do not face inconvenience.
As an illustration, he recalled his earlier instructions to all Ministries for extensive use of space technology.
He said this could help in proper location of examination centres, to minimize difficulties in access for the students.
Reviewing the progress of the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan, the Prime Minister was apprised of progress made in improving accessibility in schools, public buildings and railway stations etc.
He appreciated the sensitivity that has been shown in this regard by various departments of the Central and State Governments.
During an appraisal of the progress of Aadhaar enrolment, it was noted that overall enrolment is now close to 105 crore, and special attention is being given to the North-Eastern States which are lacking in this regard.
The Prime Minister urged States to accelerate enrolment among children in the 5 to 18 age-group so that scholarships and other educational benefits become more accessible to them.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the progress of vital infrastructure projects in the road, railway and power sectors, spread over several states including Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim and Maharashtra.
Among the projects reviewed was Nangal Dam – Talwara Railway line, which was first sanctioned in 1981-82, and has been pending since then.
The Prime Minister impressed upon the Chief Secretaries of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, the need to facilitate works at the ground level, so that further delay in this project may be avoided.
