The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today chaired his twelfth interaction through PRAGATI – the ICT-based, multi-modal platform for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress towards handling and resolution of grievances related to disbursement of scholarships/fellowships to students.
He sought to know the reasons for the delay, and enquired about the progress of Aadhaar-linkage to disbursal of benefits to students.
He urged the concerned officials to increase the speed of addressing grievances, and aim for quick and effective resolution of students’ issues with regard to scholarships and fellowships.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of vital infrastructure projects in the road, railway, steel and power sectors, spread over several states including Tripura, Mizoram, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.
The railway projects reviewed included the Akhaura-Agartala rail line, which will be a vital link between India and Bangladesh.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of modernization and expansion works for the Bhilai Steel Plant.
Taking serious note of the delay in this project, he asked the Steel and Heavy Engineering Ministries to sort out all issues, and complete the project at the earliest.
Shri Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of the “waste to wealth” initiative under the Swachh Bharat Mission.
This includes both “waste to compost,” and “waste to energy” components.
Various States gave details about the progress of works under this initiative.
Turning to the health sector, the Prime Minister reviewed the progress under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme, aimed at further reducing the incidence and mortality rate of the disease.
He directed that necessary equipment for timely detection of Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis be installed in the districts on priority.
He also called for a review of the progress towards combating the disease to be undertaken at the district level.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress towards further reducing Infant Mortality Rate and Maternal Mortality Rate (IMR and MMR), and the initiatives that have been taken in various States in this regard.
