Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has shared a post on his Facebook page, regarding his upcoming visit to Bangladesh.
Following is the text of Prime Minister’s post:
“On 6th June I will begin my 2-day visit to Bangladesh.
It is with a great sense of enthusiasm and delight that I visit a nation with which India’s ties have been very strong.
In Bangladesh I will attend several programmes, which include meeting with PM Sheikh Hasina, who has played an important role in strong India-Bangladesh ties.
There will be delegation level talks and signing of agreements.
I will join the programme to unveil the plaques for various Grant-in-Aid projects.
At the Prime Minister’s Office, plaques of railway, cultural and road projects will be unveiled.
Similarly, plaques for various development projects will be unveiled at the New Chancery.
I will pay tributes to martyrs of the 1971 liberation war at the National Martyrs’ Memorial.
I am eager to visit Bangabandhu National Museum and pay tributes to the great Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a friend of India and a pillar of strength and democracy in the South Asian region.
It will be my privilege to receive the Award of Liberation War Honour on behalf of Atal ji.
Atal ji, as Foreign Minister and as PM, placed great emphasis on strong ties with Bangladesh and had visited Bangladesh in 1999.
A few weeks ago, the Indian Parliament unanimously approved a Constitution amendment bill to give full effect to our Land Boundary Agreement of 1974 with Bangladesh and the related 2011 Protocol.
I must highlight the support of political parties as well as CMs of various states that led to the smooth passage of this amendment bill.
The ratification marks a watershed moment in our ties with Bangladesh.
Further, to promote greater people-to-people ties and connectivity, I, along with PM Hasina and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, will flag off bus services on Kolkata-Dhaka-Agartala and Dhaka-Shillong-Guwahati routes.
I will be visiting the Ramakrishna Mission in Dhaka.
It was founded by devotees of the Belur Math in 1899.
I will also visit the famous Dhakeshwari Temple in Dhaka.
I am certain my visit will be beneficial for the people of both our nations and in the larger good of the South Asian neighbourhood.”
