Miss Kristalina Georgieva, CEO, World Bank; My Colleagues in the Council of Ministers; Senior Officials, Business Leaders; Ladies and Gentlemen!
आज गुरु परब का पवित्र अवसर है | गुरु नानक देव जी का पुण्य स्मरण देश की एकता, सत्यनिष्ठता और सत्य से भरे जीवन के लिए प्रेरणा देता है| दो वर्ष के बाद गुरू नानक देव जी के 550वां प्रकाश पर्व मनाने का पूरी मानव जाति को अवसर मिलने वाला है| ऐसे जगद्गुरु को प्रणाम करते हुये मैं आप सब को भी शुभकामनाएं देता हूँ |
I am very happy to be here today.
I sense a well-deserved mood of celebration here.
The World Bank has recognized the stupendous work done by us towards improving Ease of Doing Business.
We are now among the top hundred countries in the Doing Business rankings.
In a short time of three years we have improved forty-two ranks.
I thank Ms. Kristalina Georgieva for being with us on this joyous occasion.
It shows World Bank’s commitment to encourage nations to undertake reforms which benefit society and economy.
Her presence today will motivate our team to do even better in the coming days and months.
Over the last three years, I have been constantly telling the domestic and foreign investor community that we in India are making sincere efforts to improve ‘ease of doing business’.
And Friends!
India has Walked the Talk.
This year, India’s jump in ranking is the highest.
India has been identified as one of the top reformers.
Congratulations to all who have worked for this.
You have done the nation proud.
This improvement is important:
• Because it is an indicator of Good Governance in the Country;
• Because it is a measure of the quality of our public policies;
• Because it is a benchmark of transparency of processes;
• Because, ease of doing business, also leads to ease of life;
• And, ultimately, it reflects the way people live, work and transact in a society.
Friends!
But all this is for the benefit of concerned stakeholders.
For me, the World Bank report shows that quantum change is possible through commitment and hard work.
Continued efforts can help us improve even further.
और वैसे भी आप जानते हैं मेरे पास तो और कोई काम है नहीं | इसलिए मुझे इसमें भी आगे काम ही दिखाई दे रहा है | मेरा देश , मेरे देश के सौ करोड़ लोग , उनके जीवन में कुछ बदलाव लाना और इसलिए जो अपेक्षाएं दुनिया हमसे रख रही है उन्हें पूरा करने में हम कोई कमी नहीं रखेंगे यह मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूँ|
I say this because, India has reached a position from where, now it is easier to improve further.
Our efforts have gathered momentum.
In management terms, we have achieved critical mass for a swift takeoff.
For example, this report has not taken into account the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax or GST.
As you all know, GST is the biggest tax reform in the Indian economy.
And it impacts many aspects of doing business.
With GST, we are moving towards a modern tax regime, which is transparent, stable and predictable.
और इसलिए जब जीएसटी की चर्चा हुयी है तो मैं कहना चाहूँगा , यहाँ पर व्यापार जगत के बहुत लोग हैं और इस फोरम के माध्यम से देश भर के व्यापारियों से कहना चाहता हूँ| जिस समय हमने जीएसटी लाने का संकल्प किया तब लोगों को लगता था कि पता नहीं आएगा कि नहीं आएगा, एक जुलाई को लागू होगा कि नहीं होगा| हुआ .. फिर होने के बाद लगा, कि अब मर गए …यह मोदी है कोई सुधार नहीं करेगा और हमने तब कहा था कि तीन महीना हमें इसे बारीकी से देखने दीजिये क्योंकि हिंदुस्तान इतना बड़ा है और दिल्ली में ही बुद्धि भरी हुयी है ऐसा नहीं है जी|
देश के सामान्य मानवी के पास भी समझ है| हम उससे समझेंगे, सीखेंगे, कठिनाइयों का अंदाज करेंगे, रास्ते खोजेंगे और तीन महीने के बाद जब जीएसटी कौंसिल की मीटिंग हुयी जितनी चीजें सामने आई उसका समाधान किया| कुछ चीजों के लिए काउन्सिल में कुछ राज्य सहमत नहीं थे तो हमने राज्यों के मंत्रियों और अधिकारियों की समितियां बनाईं और मुझे आज यह कहते हुए खुशी हो रही है कि verbatim रिपोर्ट अभी मेरे पास पहुँचा नहीं है लेकिन मंत्रियों की कमिटी , जीएसटी काउंसिल जो बनाई थी उन्होंने मिल करके ही बनाई थी और उस मीटिंग में जो हुआ है और जिसकी छोटी मोटी जानकारी मेरे पास है पूरा रिपोर्ट तो नहीं है मेरे पास लेकिन मैं कह सकता हूँ कि जितने इशूज सामान्य व्यापारियों ने उठाये थे कारोबारियों की तरफ से जो सुझाव आये थे करीब करीब सारे विषयों को positively स्वीकार किया जा रहा है| और नौ और दस तारीख की जीएसटी काउंसिल की मीटिंग में अगर कोई राज्य कठिनाई पैदा नहीं करेगा तो मुझे विश्वास है कि भारत के व्यापार जगत को और भारत की आर्थिक व्यवस्था को नई ताकत देने में जो भी आवश्यक सुधार होंगे वह किये जायेंगे| उसके बावजूद भी आगे भी ऐसी कोई बातें आयेंगी क्योंकि आखिर एक नई व्यवस्था को स्वीकार करना होता है , सालों की पुरानी व्यवस्था से बाहर निकलना होता है तो सरकार का ही दिमाग काम करे यह जरूरी नहीं है सभी stakeholders का दिमाग काम में आता है तब उत्तम से उत्तम परिणाम आता है और जीएसटी उसके लिए भी एक उत्तम उदाहरण बनने वाला है कि सबकी भावनाओं का आदर करते हुए व्यवस्थाओं को foolproof कैसे बनाया जा सकता है यह जीएसटी की प्रोसेस से नजर आता है|
वर्ल्ड बैंक की इस रिपोर्ट में मई 2017 तक के ही रिफॉर्म्स काउंट हुए हैं जबकि GST उसके बाद जुलाई 2017 से लागू हुआ है | इसलिए आप अंदाज कर सकते हैं कि जब 2018 में चर्चा होगी तो हमारे जो initiative हैं वह count होने वाले हैं|
There are many other reforms which have already happened, but need gestation and stabilization time, before they are taken into account by the World Bank.
There are a few other reforms where our team and the World Bank team need to find common ground.
All this, combined with our conviction to do even better, gives me the confidence that India will occupy a place of pride in the World Bank report next year and in the years thereafter.
I compliment the World Bank for engaging with countries to improve ease of doing business across the world.
I also compliment them for the theme of this year’s report – ‘Reforming to create jobs’.
There can be no denying that business is a major force in our lives.
It is an engine for growth, employment generation, wealth creation and delivery of goods and services that make our lives comfortable.
We are a young country and job creation is an opportunity as well as a challenge.
Therefore, to leverage the energy of our youth, we are positioning India as a Start-up Nation and a global manufacturing hub.
For this purpose, we have launched various initiatives, such as Make in India and Start-up India.
Through these initiatives, combined with the new eco-system of a formal economy and a unified tax regime, we are trying to create a NEW INDIA.
An India where opportunities are created and harnessed to the advantage of the needy.
We are particularly keen to develop India into a knowledge based, skill supported and technology driven society.
A good beginning has been made through the Digital India and Skill India initiatives.
Friends!
India is swiftly changing for the better.
I wish to list some more global recognitions which indicate this:
o We have moved up thirty two places in the last two years in the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum.
This is highest for any country;
o We have also moved up twenty one places on the Global Innovation Index of WIPO in two years.
o We have moved nineteen places on the Logistics Performance Index of 2016 of World Bank;
o We are among the top FDI destinations listed by UNCTAD.
कुछ लोगों को भारत की रैकिंग 142 से 100 होने की बात समझ नहीं आती। उन्हें कोई फर्क नहीं पड़ता। इनमें से कुछ लोग तो पहले वर्ल्ड बैंक में भी रह चुके हैं। वो आज भी भारत की रैंकिंग पर सवाल उठा रहे हैं। यदि इन्सॉल्वेंसी कोड, बैंकरप्सी कोड, कमर्शियल कोर्ट जैसे कानूनी सुधार आपके टाइम में ही हो जाते तो हमारी रैकिंग पहले ही सुधर जाती। यह रैंकिंग आपके सौभाग्य में आती| देश की स्थिति नहीं सुधरती नहीं क्या | किया कुछ नहीं, और जो कर रहा है उस पर सवाल कर रहे हैं|
वैसे ये भी संयोग की बात है कि वर्ल्ड बैंक ने Ease of Doing Business की प्रक्रिया साल 2004 में शुरू की थी। बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण साल है| इसके बाद 2014 तक देश में किसकी सरकार रही ये भी आप सभी को पता है।
मैं ऐसा प्रधानमंत्री हूँ जिसने वर्ल्ड बैंक का बिल्डिंग भी नहीं देखा है जबकि पहले वर्ल्ड बैंक को चलाने वाले लोग यहाँ बैठा करते थे|
मैं तो कहता हूं कि आप वर्ल्ड बैंक की इस रैकिंग पर सवाल उठाने के बजाय हमारा सहयोग करिए ताकि हम देश को और ऊंचे पायदान पर ले जा सकें। न्यू इंडिया बनाने के लिए साथ आगे बढाने का संकल्प करें|
Our mantra is reform, perform and transform.
We want to do better and better.
I am happy to note that for the first time, the World Bank is helping us in this exercise at the sub-National level too.
In a federal democracy like India, it is often not easy to take on board every stakeholder while undertaking reforms.
However, over the last three years, there has been a sea change in the response of Governments, both at Central and State level.
State Governments are finding innovative ways to create a business friendly environment.
While often competing with each other in implementing business reforms, they are also helping each other in implementing them.
This is an exciting universe in which competitiveness and cooperation co-exist.
Friends,
The agenda for boosting growth and employment, required many structural changes, many tough decisions and many new regulations.
Besides this, the mind-set of the bureaucracy required change to enable them to work fearlessly and honestly.
Over the last three years, the Union Government has done a lot on these fronts.
We have resolved a number of regulatory and policy issues facing businesses and companies.
Alongwith manufacturing, we are also pushing for faster progress in infrastructure sectors.
Therefore, we are continuously working to improve our investment climate.
In the last three and a half years we have undertaken bold Foreign Direct Investment reforms in twenty one sectors, covering eighty seven areas of policy. मैं दो साल तक सुनता रहता था बिग बैंग..बिग बैंग ..रिफॉर्म्स ..अब बंद कर दिया , क्योंकि लोगों की मालूम चल गया कि रेफौर्म्स की स्पीड और लेवल और साइज इतनी है कि आलोचना करने वाले मैच ही नहीं कर पा रहे |
These reforms have touched significant sectors like Defence, Railways, Construction Development, Insurance, Pension, Civil Aviation and Pharmaceuticals.
More than ninety percent of the FDI approvals have been put on the automatic route. यह बहुत बड़ी बात है| We are now among the most open economies for FDI.
This has resulted in increased FDI inflow, which year after year is making new records.
The FDI inflows of 55.6 billion US dollars for the year ending March, 2016 were an all-time high.
The following year, India registered an FDI inflow of 60.08 billion US dollars, thereby scaling an even higher peak.
As a result, the total FDI received in the country has gone up by 67% in a short span of three years.
During the current financial year till August, total FDI of 30.38 billion US dollars has been received, which represents an increase of 30% as compared to the corresponding period last year.
In August, 2017, India received a total FDI of 9.64 billion US dollars, which is the highest ever FDI received in any month.
Friends!
Over the last three years, we have systemically and critically evaluated business regulations.
We have tried to understand the pain points of businesses with regard to interface with government.
We engaged with businesses on a regular basis, understood their concerns and sought to modify regulation to address their concerns.
I have often emphasized that technology must be used to transform governance.
Use of technology should minimize physical interface and assist time bound decision-making.
I am glad to see that a number of Government Departments and State Governments are deploying technology to improve governance and deliver services.
Alongwith the tools of technology we also need a complete change of mind-set while dealing with business.
Total re-engineering is required both at the level of Mind and Machine.
The past mindset of excessive control has to be replaced by the concept of minimum government, maximum governance.
This is our goal and my Government is determined to achieve this objective.
With this objective, an extensive exercise was undertaken to redesign laws and re-engineer government processes to make business environment simpler and more conducive.
An attempt has been made to align the Indian regulatory environment to international best practices.
Though, we were putting in efforts to improve India’s rank in the Doing Business Report, reforms undertaken by the Government are far more extensive.
To give you one example; we have abolished more than 1200 archaic laws and Acts which were only complicating Governance.
They have been deleted from the statute book.
Similarly, thousands of important reforms have been carried out by the states as well.
These additional efforts are not part of the World Bank’s requirement.
All Ministries of the Central Government, Public Sector Undertakings, State Governments as well as regulators should identify international best practices, consult their stakeholders and align their regulations and processes with international best practices.
I have no doubt that people working in these agencies are second to none in the world in respect of their capability and commitment to public service.
Friends, इस रैंकिंग को भले Ease of doing Business कहते हैं लेकिन मैं मानता हूं कि ये Ease of doing Business के साथ ही Ease of Living Life की भी रैंकिंग है। ये रैंकिंग सुधरने का मतलब है कि देश में आम नागरिक, देश के मध्यम वर्ग की जिंदगी और आसान हुई है।
मैं ऐसा इसलिए कह रहा हूं कि इस रैंकिंग के लिए जो पैरामीटर्स चुने जाते हैं, उनमें से अधिकांश आम नागरिक, देश के नौजवानों की जिंदगी से जुड़े हुए हैं।
भारत की रैंकिंग में इतना सुधार इसलिए आया है क्योंकि पिछले तीन वर्षों में सरकार ने देश के आम नागरिक की जिंदगी में होने वाली मुश्किलों को कम करने के लिए Reform का रास्ता अपनाया है। तीन वर्षों में देश में टैक्स भरने की प्रक्रिया में बहुत सुधार आया है। इनकम टैक्स रिटर्न के लिए अब महीनों इंतजार नहीं करना पड़ा।
PF रजिस्ट्रेशन और PF का पैसा निकालने के लिए पहले आपको दफ्तरों के चक्कर लगाने पड़ते थे। अब सब कुछ ऑनलाइन हो गया है।
मेरे नौजवान साथी अब सिर्फ एक दिन में अपनी नई कंपनी रजिस्टर करा सकते हैं। कारोबारी मुकदमों की सुनवाई भी आसान हुई है। तीन वर्षों में भारत में कंस्ट्रक्शन परमिट लेना आसान हुआ है। बिजली कनेक्शन लेना आसान हुआ है। रेलवे रिजर्वेशन कराना आसान हुआ है। जो पासपोर्ट पहले महीनों में मिलता था, अब एक हफ्ते के भीतर मिल जाता है। ये Ease of Living Life नहीं है तो क्या है?
I must make a special mention of the fact that while Ease of Doing Business is important for all businesses, it is critical for small businesses including small manufacturers.
This sector provides the bulk of employment in the country and to make them more competitive, we have to reduce the cost of doing business.
The work on Ease of Doing Business must address the issues of these small businesses and manufacturers.
Once again, let me congratulate the team working on various aspects of ease of doing business for their commitment and dedication.
I am sure that together we will write a new chapter in India’s history and transform India so that the dreams and aspirations of our people take wing.
I would like to thank the World Bank again for their guidance in our efforts to improve ease of Doing Business.
I am told that the experience of bringing about decisive changes in a large country like India without affecting the growth process may become an example for many other nations.
There is always scope to learn from others.
If required, we will be happy to share our experience with other countries.
Thank You!
Thank You Very Much !!
