The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today chaired his second interaction through PRAGATI – the ICT-based, multi-modal platform for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation.
The Prime Minister defined the role of PRAGATI as a means to break the silos between various Government agencies that impede decision-making.
He said the key objective is to find ways to speed up government processes.
In the course of his review today, the Prime Minister reviewed the work done for tribal welfare, especially giving land titles under the Forest Rights Act.
He asked the officials to make use of satellite technology to expedite the process of identifying tribal habitations.
The Prime Minister, in particular, emphasized the need to speed up infrastructure projects to improve connectivity in the eastern and north-eastern parts of the country.
He said infrastructure development is the key to rapid development of the North-East.
In this regard, he reviewed the progress of key railway projects in West Bengal and Assam.
He also reviewed the progress of the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway, and interacted with Indian Ambassadors in Yangon, Myanmar and Bangkok, Thailand.
Shri Narendra Modi reviewed public grievances relating to LPG distribution, and urged the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to resolve pending complaints at the earliest, and institute arrangements so that such complaints do not arise.
He also discussed public grievances relating to BSNL customers and asked the officials to come up with a strategy to strengthen BSNL’s services.
The Prime Minister noted the efforts of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for the roll-out of people-friendly initiatives.
The Prime Minister reviewed progress of the Green Energy Corridor project, and underlined India’s commitment to global leadership with regard to renewable energy.
At the end, the Prime Minister, urged all officers to proactively work upon various pending issues and projects.
He said the speed of implementation and project delivery should not be limited to only those projects which are coming up for review under PRAGATI, but should span all pending projects, keeping in view the welfare and facilitation of citizens.
