Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said that India would use the strengths of its democracy and young population for the benefit of mankind.
He said the coming age would be the age of knowledge, and India would once again perform the role of “Vishvaguru”.
In his remarks during an interaction with civil society at Fiji Technical University in Suva today, the Prime Minister said India had a responsibility towards the world at large.
The Prime Minister said India and Fiji have many shared values, and it is the responsibility of both of them to strengthen those values.
Saying that Fiji had chosen the path of democracy to move forward, the Prime Minister said this had set an example that would exert a positive influence in the wider Pacific region as well.
Noting that the coming age was an age of knowledge and technology, the Prime Minister said it was essential to keep adding to the knowledge base, and to keep up the pace of new discoveries and inventions.
He said India was once again ready to play the role of “Vishvaguru,” and work towards the benefit of mankind.
He said our ancient sages had spoken of India’s global responsibility, and the coming “Gyan Yug” would see India play a pivotal role,using the strengths of its democracy and demographic dividend.
He said the Government was giving priority to skill development so that these strengths could be leveraged for the benefit of the whole world.
He also talked about ending the digital divide, saying we have to prepare for the future to help the world.
The Prime Minister spoke of the initiatives he had announced earlier today:-
-Visa on arrival for Fiji and other Pacific island Nations. -A fund of five million US dollars to promote small business and village enterprises in Fiji. -A line of credit of 70 million US dollars for a co-generation power plant. -Doubling the scholarships and training slots in India for Fiji. -Setting up of a Special Adaptation Fund of $ 1 million to provide technical assistance and training for capacity building to Pacific island nations on the issue of global warming.
