The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called upon states to work together with the Centre, with a long-term vision, to develop the country, and pave the way for the prosperity of future generations.
He was addressing a large public meeting at Rourkela, after dedicating to the nation, the 4.5 MT expansion of Rourkela Steel Plant.
He said he has come to Rourkela today to deliver ‘vikas’ (development).
He described Rourkela as the town which has given India the strength of steel.
He said Rourkela Steel Plant plays a key role in the nation’s defence as well.
The Prime Minister said India had surpassed America in steel production, but was still far behind China, and therefore, a lot more still needed to be done.
He said value addition was necessary in India’s mineral wealth, in order to build a strong economy.
The Prime Minister said the world was looking at India again with optimism.
He invited investors from across the world to invest in India.
He emphasized in particular, the need to develop the eastern part of India, including the states of Assam, West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, and Eastern Uttar Pradesh.
The Prime Minister said the Centre and States were equal stakeholders in the Nation’s development.
He highlighted steps taken by the Centre to strengthen states, including enhancing mineral royalty and greater devolution of financial resources to states.
He said it was now upto the states to work with a long-term vision for development.
The Prime Minister described the process of auctioning of coal blocks, and said the revenues from this would contribute greatly to the development of states.
The Prime Minister paid tribute to the Visionary and Founding Leaders of New Odisha, on the occasion of Utkal Diwas.
The Prime Minister presented the Trophy for Excellence in Performance of Integrated Steel Plants to Tata Steel Ltd (TISCO), Bhilai Steel Plant, SAIL, and JSW Steel Ltd, for the years 2010-11, 2011-12, and 2012-13 respectively.
The Governor of Odisha Dr. S C Jamir, The Chief Minister of Odisha Shri Naveen Patnaik, Union Ministers Shri Jual Oram, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, and Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, and Union MoS Shri Vishnu Deo Sai, were present on the occasion.
