Arunachal getting both “Gati” – momentum, and “Urja” – energy today.
Electricity, education are best weapons in the fight against poverty.
Dedicates to Nation, the Harmuti-Naharlagun Rail Line.
Flags off AC Express between Naharlagun and New Delhi; Inter-City Express between Naharlagun and Guwahati.
Inaugurates Festival of Arunachal 2015.
Releases Souvenir to mark 29th Statehood Day.
Inaugurates Water Supply Scheme for Itanagar.
Lays Foundation Stone of 132 KV Transmission Line.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi said Arunachal Pradesh is getting both “gati” (momentum) and urja (energy) today.
Stating that poverty eradication cannot happen on the basis of mere slogans, the Prime Minister said that the projects being launched today, would boost connectivity and provide electricity – which would in turn become strong weapons in the fight against poverty.
He was addressing a large gathering in Itanagar, after dedicating to the Nation the Harmuti-Naharlagun Rail Line.
The Prime Minister flagged off an AC Express between Naharlagun and New Delhi; and the Inter-City Express between Naharlagun and Guwahati.
The Prime Minister inaugurated the Festival of Arunachal 2015, and released a souvenir to mark the 29th Statehood Day of Arunachal Pradesh.
He inaugurated a Water Supply Scheme for Itanagar and laid the Foundation Stone of a 132 KV Transmission Line.
The Prime Minister emphasized that poor connectivity was the biggest reason for under-development in the north-east, and these projects would contribute to improving connectivity.
The Prime Minister spoke about the immense hydropower potential of Arunachal Pradesh.
He gave examples of how Nepal and Bhutan were harnessing hydropower to transform their economy, and how Himachal Pradesh had done the same for India.
He said Arunachal Pradesh could provide electricity to the entire country.
He called for development of the state’s hydropower potential, simultaneously providing proper compensation to people who get displaced by hydropower projects.
The Prime Minister said the Union Government plans to establish new six agricultural universities in the Northeast, and could become a major centre for organic farming famous around the world.
He said FM radio services would be expanded in the region.
He said “Make in Northeast” was being envisaged as an integral part of “Make in India.”
The Prime Minister said Ministers and senior officers of the Union Government are now working in close coordination with the Northeast states to remove bottlenecks in development.
The Governor of Arunachal Pradesh Lt. Gen. Nirbhay Sharma (Retd.), the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh Shri Nabam Tuki, the Union Minister for Railways Shri Suresh Prabhu, the Union MoS for Railways Shri Manoj Sinha, and the Union MoS for Home Shri Kiren Rijiju were present on the occasion.
