Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be visiting Ireland and United States of America (USA) from September 23, 2015 to September 29, 2015.
In a series of Facebook posts the Prime Minister said:-
“On 23rd September 2015 I will visit Ireland.
It is after almost 60 years that an Indian Prime Minister will visit Ireland.
In Ireland I will hold talks with Mr. Enda Kenny, the Taoiseach of Ireland.
We hope to further develop strong people-to-people and economic ties with Ireland in the years to come.
In Ireland I will also interact with the Indian community.
On 24th September 2015, I will commence my visit to USA.
This visit seeks to build on the substantial ground covered during my last visit to USA and President Obama’s visit to India early this year.
I am going to USA at a historic moment when the United Nations is celebrating its 70th anniversary.
India attaches great importance to the United Nations.
In July, I had written a letter to heads of governments of 193 nations outlining India’s vision for UN agenda and reforms.
I am glad that leaders of several nations wrote back appreciating our vision.
In New York City, I will address the UN Sustainable Development Summit for formal adoption of post-2015 new sustainable development agenda.
Coming from a culture that regards harmony as central to its ethos, I am glad to have an opportunity to address this forum.
The new goals are closely aligned with India’s vision for sustainable development and our flagship programs for the same.
I will also participate in a summit hosted by President Obama on peacekeeping.
India has historically been one of the largest contributors to the UN peacekeeping forces.
Over 180,000 Indian troops have participated in UN peacekeeping missions – more than from any other country.
We are proud of our peacekeeping forces spread across the world, ensuring peace in difficult circumstances.
I will pay homage to all those brave men and women who sacrificed their lives for peace.
And I look forward to sharing my thoughts on how to make peacekeeping more effective.
This year, India will host a summit of G-4 leaders in New York where the main agenda would be the UNSC reforms.
The 70th anniversary of the UN is an apposite moment for reform discussions to be accelerated.
Recently, the UN General Assembly finally adopted a document after over 20 years that would form the basis of formal discussions on this matter.
I will be meeting several world leaders during the visit.
Also, I will have interactions with leading investors and financial sector firms.
There will be a working dinner where major Fortune-500 companies will be present to deliberate on investment opportunities in India.
We have been interacting with several American business leaders over the last year and the outcomes have been encouraging.
During my USA visit I will be visiting the West Coast on 26th and 27th September, where I will join several programmes.
It would be after a gap of almost 33 years that an Indian PM would be visiting the west coast – the home of start-ups, innovation and technology.
I will be part of a Townhall Q&A at the Facebook HQ along with Mr. Mark Zuckerberg.
We will discuss some global issues and issues relating to India, particularly on the economy and society.
This is a Townhall you shouldn’t miss.
I have already invited you all to share your questions through Facebook or the ‘Narendra Modi Mobile App.’
I will also see some recent technological innovations at the Google (Alphabet) campus and Tesla Motors.
I will address a Renewable Energy Roundtable with USDOC and Stanford University.
An event that I am enthusiastic about is the ‘India-US Start-up Konnect.’
India is emerging as a hub of start-ups in a wide range of areas and we aspire to take this further.
We want the world to see our innovation capabilities in the start-up sector.
At this event, a group of Indian start-ups will showcase their innovations and forge partnerships with the vibrant American start-up industry.
In San Jose, I will interact with the Indian community on the 27th September.
The Indian diaspora has left no stone unturned in strengthening India-USA ties.
We are very proud of the accomplishments of our diaspora that has made immense contributions to both our societies.
I am sure my US visit will be fruitful and further deepen the bond between the world’s oldest and largest democracies.”
