Following is the text of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s statement prior to his departure to Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya.
“On Thursday, 7th July I will be in Mozambique.
The aim of my visit is to increase cooperation and boost cultural linkages.
I will meet President Filipe Nyusi and hold extensive talks with him.
My other programmes include a meeting with Ms. Veronica Macamo, the President of the National Assembly and a visit to the S&T Park, Maluana where I will interact with students.
I will also interact with the Indian community briefly.
On the evening of 7th July, I will reach Pretoria in South Africa.
South Africa is an important strategic partner, with whom our ties are historical and deep-rooted.
My programmes in South Africa will span across Pretoria, Johannesburg, Durban and Pietermaritzburg.
History is witness to how Mahatma Gandhi’s stay in South Africa impacted him and the history of the world.
He went to South Africa as a lawyer seeking work and returned to India as a strong voice for humanitarian values, who would go on to shape the history of humankind.
I will have the honour to visit Phoenix Settlement and Pietermaritzburg Station, two places very closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi’s stay in South Africa.
A visit to South Africa is incomplete without remembering the beloved Madiba.
I will also be honoured to visit the Constitutional Hill and Nelson Mandela Foundation where I would pay my tributes to an icon of human history, who made his country and the world a much better place.
During my visit, I will meet President Zuma.
I will also be meeting Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa, the Deputy President.
In an effort to boost our economic ties, I will speak at the India-South Africa business meet.
Other programmes include a meeting with the Alumni Network in Durban and a reception hosted by the Mayor of Durban, at Durban City Hall.
South Africa is home to a vibrant Indian community, that has made South Africa their home for years.
I will interact with the Indian community a programme in Johannesburg on 8th July.
I invite you to share your ideas and inputs for my speech, through the ‘Narendra Modi Mobile App.’
On Sunday 10th July I will be in Tanzania for a brief but crucial visit to give an impetus to ties with Tanzania, a valued friend in Africa.
There will be extensive talks with President Dr. John Magufuli where we will chalk out the road ahead for bettering India-Tanzania relations in a wide range of areas.
I will also be meeting ‘Solar Mamas’, a group of rural women solar engineers from Africa who have been trained under GOI-supported programmes to fabricate, install, use, repair and maintain solar lanterns and household solar lighting systems in their villages.
I will interact with the Indian community as well.
I will begin my Kenya visit on the evening of 10th July.
India-Kenya ties have stood the test of time.
Both our nations have had very strong people-to-people ties and both nations have successfully fought colonialism in the previous century.
My deliberations with President Uhuru Kenyatta will revolve around how India and Kenya can grow their bilateral cooperation.
I envision better trade, commercial and cultural exchanges between India and Kenya.
The potential is immense and together we seek to harness it.
In Nairobi, I will offer floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, who is widely revered in Kenya.
I shall also pay tributes to Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, the first president of Kenya and a towering political figure of Africa.
The meeting of the India-Kenya business forum will be an important forum to elaborate more on the economic aspect of our relationship with Kenya.
A programme that I am keenly looking forward to join is an interaction with students at the Nairobi University.
In order to deepen ties with the diaspora, I will address a community programme on 10th July.
There is also a meeting with Bharatwallah Alumni Association during the visit.
Another programme is the handing over of ambulances and a model of Bhabhatron.”
