Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be attending 9th BRICS Summit in Xiamen, China from 3-5 September 2017.
Prime Minister will also be on the state visit of Myanmar from 5-7 September 2017.
In a series of Facebook posts from his account, the Prime Minister said:
“I will visit Xiamen, China for the 9th BRICS Summit from 3-5 September 2017.
India had the privilege of hosting the previous Summit in Goa in October last year.
I look forward to building upon the results and outcomes of the Goa Summit.
I also look forward to productive discussions and positive outcomes that will support the agenda of a stronger BRICS partnership under the chairmanship of China.
We will also interact with the BRICS Business Council represented by captains of industry from all five countries.
In addition, I look forward to engaging with leaders of nine other countries, including BRICS partners, in an Emerging Markets and Developing Countries Dialogue, hosted by President Xi Jinping on 5 September.
I will have the opportunity to meet leaders bilaterally on the sidelines of the Summit.
India attaches high importance to the role of BRICS that has begun a second decade of its partnership for progress and peace.
BRICS has important contributions to make in addressing global challenges and upholding world peace and security.
I will visit Myanmar on 5-7 September 2017 at the invitation of His Excellency U Htin Kyaw, President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
I have visited this beautiful country earlier in 2014 for the ASEAN-India Summit, but this will be my first bilateral visit to Myanmar.
I am looking forward to meeting President U Htin Kyaw as also Her Excellency Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, State Counsellor, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Minister of President’s Office.
I have had the opportunity for discussions with both dignitaries during their visits to India in 2016.
During the visit, we will review developments in our bilateral relations, especially the extensive programme of development cooperation and socio-economic assistance that India is undertaking in Myanmar, and explore new areas in which we can work together.
We will also look at strengthening our existing cooperation on security and counter-terrorism, trade and investment, skill development, infrastructure and energy, and culture.
I also look forward to paying a visit to the famed heritage city of Bagan, where the Archaeological Survey of India has done stellar work on renovating the Ananda Temple, and where it will be undertaking further restoration work on a number of pagodas and murals that were damaged in last year’s earthquake.
I will end my visit in Yangon, where I look forward to visiting various historical spots that symbolise the shared heritage of India and Myanmar.
I am also keen to meet and interact with the Indian-origin community of Myanmar, whose history goes back more than a century.
I am confident that the visit will open a bright new chapter in India-Myanmar relations and will help in charting a roadmap for closer cooperation between our Governments, our business communities and at the people to people level.”
