PM: Governors are “agents of change;” their catalysing influence can contribute significantly to states.
Through NITI Aayog, Union Government has begun a process of cooperative, competitive federalism that respects diversity and federal structure of India.
As Chancellors of Universities, motivate youth and their families to work for “Swachh Bharat”.
Governors should pay special attention towards central schemes such as rural electrification.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today described Governors as inspirational “Agents of Change”, and said their catalysing influence can contribute significantly to the development of states.
He was addressing the concluding session of the Conference of Governors at Rashtrapati Bhavan today.
The Prime Minister described the distinguished gathering of Governors as one which included a former Chief Justice of India, former Chief Ministers, a former Cabinet Minister, former Speakers of Legislative Assemblies, a former Army officer, and former senior bureaucrats.
Shri Narendra Modi outlined the broad thrust of the Union Government`s policies, which he described as oriented towards all-round economic growth.
He said the Government has moved away from the model of “one-size-fits-all” schemes, and is working towards cooperative, competitive federalism, through the NITI Aayog.
Referring to the security scenario, the Prime Minister said that the expanding footprint of extremist and terrorist organizations in Pakistan, and their link with terror activities in India, is a major security challenge.
He said ceasefire violations along the Line of Control were continuing.
He added that the Government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to counter infiltration from across the border.
He urged states facing the problem of Left Wing Extremism to adopt a coordinated approach to tackle the problem.
The Prime Minister stressed the need for ending the infrastructure deficit in the North-East, to realize the immense potential of the region, and to help it march forward shoulder-to-shoulder as part of “Team India”.
The Prime Minister spoke extensively on the subject of tribal development, and referred to the Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana, which was initiated when he was the Chief Minister of Gujarat in 2007.
He stressed on the need for providing stable employment to tribals, eliminating infrastructure gaps, and improving education, human development, and lifestyle changes among the tribal communities.
The Prime Minister highlighted recent governance initiatives of the Union Government, including the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG subsidy, the Digital India Mission, the Make in India Mission, initiatives for skill development, and elimination of outdated laws.
He said Governors are Chancellors of Universities, and in that capacity, they should inspire youth and their families to work towards Swachh Bharat.
The Prime Minister also touched upon major social issues such as drug abuse, declining sex ratio and food adulteration, in his address.
He asked Governors to contribute in the successful implementation of important central schemes.
As an illustration, he mentioned rural electrification, and said 20,000 villages still remained without electricity.
He also mentioned pending projects in the road, rail and power sectors.
