Prime Minister, Narendra Modi spoke on phone today to Dr. Ashraf Ghani, President of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and congratulated him on his election to the office of President of Afghanistan.
Prime Minister lauded President Ghani’s wisdom and statesmanship, and his commitment to unity, peace and progress in Afghanistan, which had enabled the formation of a broad-based an inclusive government and a peaceful political transition.
He paid tribute to the people and the political leaders of Afghanistan for their faith in democracy and will to prevail over violence and terrorism.
Prime Minister expressed confidence that President Ghani’s expertise, global experience and grassroots knowledge, borne out of travel to every district of Afghanistan, will help him implement his bold agenda of economic reforms and development in Afghanistan.
He also mentioned that President Ghani’s experience will be beneficial for India and the region.
Prime Minister Modi conveyed that India will stand with him, as a friend and a partner, at every step on the way, as his government moves forward in its efforts to build a strong, stable, peaceful, democratic, inclusive and prosperous nation.
Prime Minister noted that India’s relations with Afghanistan have been forged by ancient cultural links and timeless bonds of mutual affection and admiration, which had grown deeper in recent years as the Afghan people have strived to rebuild their lives and their nation.
President Ghani conveyed his deep sense of appreciation for Prime Minister’s letter of congratulations.
He described India as the foundation of Afghanistan’s diplomacy and economic strategy.
President Ghani complimented Prime Minister on his electoral success and his development vision, which would be beneficial for Afghanistan and the entire region.
President Ghani accepted Prime Minister Modi’s invitation to visit India at the earliest opportunities and also suggested immediate commencement of dialogue between the two governments, including between their national security advisors and economic advisors.
