The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today chaired his sixth interaction through PRAGATI – the ICT-based, multi-modal platform for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation.
In course of his review today, the Prime Minister reviewed in particular, the progress of development of solar energy parks in 17 States across the country.
He exhorted States to work proactively towards creating conducive policy frameworks to enable speedy implementation of solar power projects.
The Prime Minister expressed concern at the undue delay in processing of requests for patents and trademarks.
The Prime Minister directed these processes to be brought in line with global standards, within a reasonable timeframe.
He also called for an overhaul of the patent application filing process, and a drastic reduction in the number of forms required for this process.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of key infrastructure projects in the Railway, Metro Rail, Coal and Iron Ore Mining, Road, Power, and Aviation sectors, spread over several States.
The Prime Minister, on the request of the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, reviewed the Lucknow Metro Rail Project (Phase 1A), and expressed satisfaction that several clearances have been given after the project was flagged for review under PRAGATI.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the Khurda-Bolangir new Broad Gauge Rail link, on the request of the State of Odisha.
Shri Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of the new Pakyong Airport in Sikkim, describing it as a crucial project for connectivity and development of tourism in the State, and urged the State to work proactively for its timely implementation.
Among other projects reviewed were the Mumbai Metro Project Line 3 (Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ), and crucial coal and iron-ore mining projects in the eastern States.
The Prime Minister also reviewed the progress of important Indian projects in Afghanistan, including the Parliament Building and the Salma Dam.
The Prime Minister asked all concerned departments to ensure that development projects being implemented by India in the SAARC region, are implemented expeditiously.
The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of implementation of National Food Security Act, 2013 and Aadhar card enrolment, across the country, and emphasized speedy implementation so that citizens can avail the benefits of these initiatives.
