The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be visiting Israel on 4-6 July, 2017.
Prime Minister will also be visiting Hamburg in Germany on 6-8 July, 2017 to attend 12th G-20 Summit.
In a series of Facebook posts from his account, the Prime Minister said:
“I will be visiting Israel on 4-6 July, 2017 upon invitation of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
As the first Indian Prime Minister to do so, I am greatly looking forward to this unprecedented visit that will bring our two countries and people closer.
This year, India and Israel are marking 25 years of our diplomatic relations.
I will have in-depth talks with Prime Minister Netanyahu on the full spectrum of our partnership and strengthening it in diverse fields for mutual benefit.
We will also have the chance to discuss major common challenges like terrorism.
I will meet President Reuven Ruvi Rivlin – who I had the pleasure of receiving in New Delhi in November last year, as well as other senior leaders.
My programme during the visit gives me an opportunity to engage with a cross-section of Israeli society.
I am particularly looking forward to interacting with the large vibrant Indian diaspora in Israel that represents an enduring link between our two peoples.
On the economic side, I will join with leading Indian and Israeli CEOs and start-ups to discuss our shared priority of expanding business and investment collaboration on the ground.
In addition, I hope to get insights into Israel’s accomplishments in technology and innovation through on-site visits.
During my stay, I will visit the Yad Vashem Memorial Museum to honour the memory of the victims of the holocaust that counts among the greatest tragedies in human history.
Later, I will also pay my respects to the courageous Indian soldiers who laid down their lives during the liberation of Haifa in 1918.
On the evening of 6 July, I will commence my visit to Hamburg for the 12th G-20 Summit hosted by Germany.
Over two days on 7th and 8th July, I look forward to engaging leaders from other G-20 countries on the vital issues affecting our world today that have a bearing on economic growth, sustainable development, and peace and stability.
We will review progress on decisions since the Hangzhou Summit last year and deliberate on issues of terrorism, climate, sustainable development, growth and trade, digitalisation, health, employment, migration, women’s empowerment, and partnership with Africa.
The theme chosen for this year is “Shaping an Inter-connected World”.
As in the past, I look forward to the opportunity to meet leaders on the side lines of the Summit to exchange views on bilateral matters of mutual interest.”
