• PM pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, on their birth anniversary.
• PM visits Jharkhand, inaugurates solar power plant for district court in Khunti, launches mega credit camp for Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana in Dumka.
• LPG connections given to 5000 BPL families at Dumka.
• PM gives away Safaigiri Awards at a function organized by the India Today Group.
PM pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat.
The Prime Minister visited Rajghat this morning, and paid his respects to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.
“पूज्य बापू को शत् शत् नमन। लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी की जयंती पर मेरा प्रणाम।” the Prime Minister tweeted.
PM in Jharkhand.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today inaugurated a 180 KW capacity rooftop solar power plant for the District Court in Khunti, Jharkhand.
Addressing a large gathering, which included large numbers of tribal women, the Prime Minister said that it was quite appropriate that a solar energy project was being inaugurated on Gandhi Jayanti.
He said Mahatma Gandhi had always showed how to live in harmony with nature through his thoughts and deeds.
The Prime Minister spoke of his recent visit to the United Nations, and said all leaders present there had expressed concern over global warming and the threat it posed to mankind.
He said India was not responsible for this, as our ancestors never taught us to harm nature.
However, the Prime Minister added that in order to save humanity from this crisis, India would make its contribution.
He said solar energy use was one way of doing so.
The Prime Minister mentioned that it was significant that this initiative of a district court functioning through solar power had been undertaken in Jharkhand, a state rich in coal reserves.
The Prime Minister said that there were instances where the dispensation of justice in courts had suffered due to the non-availability of electricity.
He said that this initiative of a solar powered court complex had shown a way to ensure that such a situation did not arise.
The Prime Minister exhorted the people to use LED lamps to conserve energy and lower their electricity bills.
The Prime Minister paid homage to former Prime Minister Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary, and noted that the country had recently celebrated the Golden Jubilee of India’s victory in the 1965 India-Pak war, which had been won when Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri was the Prime Minister.
He also recalled his recent visit to Tashkent, where he had unveiled a statue of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri.
The Prime Minister inaugurated a mega credit camp for Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana at Dumka, and handed over loan documents and Mudra cards to 5 beneficiaries.
He expressed happiness at the large gathering of people both in Khunti and in Dumka, and said this shows how keen the people of Jharkhand are for development.
The Prime Minister complimented the State Government and people of Jharkhand, for the remarkable progress made by the State in “ease of doing business,” as reflected by the World Bank in a recent report.
The Prime Minister announced that 42 lakh people have been given loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana so far, and a total of Rs. 26,000 crore have been disbursed.
He said this will help small entrepreneurs expand their businesses, and escape the clutches of moneylenders.
He said there were 20 lakh women among the beneficiaries.
The Prime Minister said 31 lakh people had surrendered their LPG subsidy so far, under the “Give it Up” campaign.
Handing over new LPG connections to 3 BPL families, the Prime Minister thanked all those who had given up LPG subsidy, so that it could be given to the poor who needed it the most.
On the occasion, five thousand households from BPL category were handed over LPG connections.
The Prime Minister also launched online, a project for the conservation and development of historic Maluti temple complex in Dumka district.
Safaigiri Summit and Awards 2015.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said there can be no bigger inspiration than Mahatma Gandhi, for pursuing the vision of Swachh Bharat.
In his remarks at the Safaigiri Summit and Awards 2015, organized by the India Today group in New Delhi, the Prime Minister said that over the last one year, a lot of people had contributed towards this vision.
The Prime Minister especially highlighted the positive and proactive role played by electronic media in this regard.
The Prime Minister said Swachhta or cleanliness is a matter of habit.
Once this habit is inculcated, an individual cannot tolerate an unclean environment.
He said that while India has been a very conscious society in terms of personal hygiene, social hygiene had been neglected.
This needed to be corrected, the Prime Minister added.
The Prime Minister said that upto 1000 children die daily in India, due to unhygienic conditions.
He said that Swachh Bharat cannot be seen as merely a Government programme.
He said this was everyone’s programme.
If 125 crore people decide that India must be clean, it can be ensured, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister commended the efforts of the award winners, and said their work would serve as inspiration for many others.
He also gave several other examples of individuals, especially youth, who had made a significant contribution towards Swachh Bharat over the last one year.
