Prime Minister Narendra Modi met South African President Jacob Zuma on the margins of the BRICS Summit on July 16 in Brazilia.
President Zuma warmly congratulated Prime Minister on his election victory.
Prime Minister also congratulated President Zuma on his re-election.
The two leaders described the relations between India and South Africa as unique and special, forged by the strong presence of the Indian community in South Africa, shared struggle against colonialism and apartheid and their convergence on international issues.
Prime Minister noted Mahatma Gandhi’s life had created a special link between the two countries and invited South Africa to join in the centenary celebration in January 2015 of Mahatma Gandhi’s return to India.
He also paid tribute to President Nelson Mandela.
The two leaders pledged to strengthen bilateral relations and work closely in international forums to advance the interests of the two countries and the developing world at large.
President Zuma, in particular, sought Prime Minister’s help in strengthening Small and Medium Scale Industries in South Africa, for which he had recently created a new Ministry.
Prime Minister lauded President Zuma’s initiative and offered India’s full support.
Prime Minister thanked President Zuma for his wise stewardship of BRICS over the last year.
Prime Minister also had an opportunity to interact with eleven South American leaders at the meeting between BRICS and South America hosted by Brazilian President Rousseff.
This was the first occasion when an Indian Prime Minister had an opportunity to meet so many South American leaders at one place.
South American leaders expressed appreciation for Prime Minister’s strong commitment to deepen India’s ties with South America, which he described as a land of vast opportunity for India and a pole for global economic growth.
They expressed a keen desire to develop closer relations with India and invited him to pay a bilateral visit to South America.
On the margins of the meeting, Prime Minister had detailed talks with President Donald Ramotar of Guyana, President Ollanta Humala of Peru and President Desi Bouterse of Suriname.
