The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be visiting Malaysia and Singapore from November 21, 2015 to November 24, 2015.
In a series of Facebook posts the Prime Minister said:-
“I will be travelling to Malaysia and Singapore for a four-day visit.
In Malaysia I will be attending the ASEAN-India Summit and the 10th East Asia Summit.
I will be holding talks with Prime Minister Najib Razak and other world leaders who are attending the Summits.
In Singapore, I will hold deliberations with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on ways to enhance India-Singapore ties on the occasion of commemoration of 50th anniversary of our diplomatic ties.
My visits to Malaysia and Singapore are aimed at making our economic ties with these nations stronger and to also strengthen the security cooperation between us.
You can get all the latest news and updates from this visit on the Mobile App. http://nm4.in/dnldapp
Malaysia is at the core of our ‘Act East Policy.’
Since 2010, India has a strategic partnership with Malaysia.
Malaysia investments, including in various infrastructure projects are strong in India.
India’s trade with Malaysia is also vibrant, particularly in commodities sector.
During my Malaysia visit, I will meet Prime Minister Najib Razak and discuss bilateral ties with him.
I will join the programme for the inauguration of Torana Gate and also interact with Corporate Malaysia.
My visit includes a visit to the Ramakrishna Mission, inauguration of a statue of Swami Vivekananda and a visit to the Batu Caves Temple.
Over 2 million persons of Indian origin reside in Malaysia.
There will be an interaction with them at a community programme.
Our diaspora must be saluted for their accomplishments and bringing the two Nations closer.
After Malaysia, I will visit Singapore.
This visit comes at a special moment when we mark fifty years of strong India-Singapore relations.
The importance India attaches to ties with Singapore is immense.
Singapore is a leading investor in India and several Indian companies are expanding their operations to Singapore.
Singapore’s success is indeed noteworthy.
Their achievements in urban development, urban transport, waste management, development of ports and skill development are well known.
My visit to Singapore will focus on these key areas of India-Singapore cooperation.
My first engagement will be the Singapore Lecture.
There will be talks with President Tony Tan Keng Yam, PM Lee Hsien Loong, and Emeritus Senior Minister Mr. Goh Chok Tong.
I have had the honour of meeting them on previous occasions.
President Tony Tan Keng Yam visited us in February this year.
A meeting with prominent investors will focus on the investment opportunities in India.
With a focus on skill development, I will visit ITE.
I will also pay homage at the INA Memorial Marker at Esplanade Park.
Over 350,000 Indians stay in Singapore.
We will interact at a community programme on the evening of 24th November.
I am certain my Singapore visit will lead to enhanced India-Singapore cooperation and this will benefit our nations, Asia and the rest of the world.
On Saturday, 21st November I will participate in the ASEAN-India Summit.
India’s partnership with ASEAN nations has gathered immense momentum over the years.
ASEAN is India’s 4th largest trading partner and India is the 6th largest trading partner for ASEAN.
Our trade and investment flows are substantially growing.
Yet, we want to further scale up our trade and economic ties.
I will expand on the need for closer economic cooperation and investment opportunities in India at the ASEAN Business and Investment Summit, which will take place on the same day.
The ASEAN nations have welcomed India’s ‘Act East Policy’ and we in India are extremely enthusiastic to have better relations with the ASEAN family in areas such as defence, security and cultural ties.
Robust India-ASEAN ties will give great impetus to our collective dream of making this century an ‘Asian Century.’
The 10th East Asia Summit will be held on 22nd November 2015.
India attaches a lot of importance to this Summit; in each of the previous nine editions of this Summit, India has been represented at the Prime Ministerial level.
This Summit is being held at a critical juncture and together, we will discuss the pressing security issues.
The looming threat of terror and the prevailing situation in West Asia will also be a part of the discussions.
On the sidelines of the Summit there will be bilateral meetings with various world leaders.
Share your ideas and inputs for the community programmes in Malaysia and Singapore.
You can do so through the Mobile App.
I will meet some of those who are based in Malaysia and Singapore who have shared their inputs. http://nm4.in/dnldapp
For the community programme at Wembley Stadium in London, I had made a similar request and the experience was wonderful.
I received very valuable and refreshing inputs.
I had also met some of the contributors.”
