Government to work towards repeal of approximately 1700 obsolete laws.
PM inaugurates Bombay High Court Museum; suggests a digital version of the Museum be also prepared.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said the Government had identified about 1700 obsolete laws, and is working towards their repeal.
In his address at the concluding Sesquicentennial Function of the Advocates Association of Western India (AAWI) in Mumbai today, the Prime Minister said the world is looking towards India with great hope.
He said one of the reasons for this is that the investor community across the world trusts the independence of India’s judicial system.
He said this is a great contribution of all those associated with the legal profession.
The Prime Minister appreciated the role played by the AAWI over 150 years – the bar to which both Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel belonged.
He said that the founders of this association would have created this bar, in order to pursue excellence in the profession.
He said the country’s freedom struggle was led by people from the fields of law and education.
The Prime Minister asked the AAWI to think about how the bar will go forward after 150 years.
He said that along with quick justice, “quality justice” was also the need of the hour.
And this depended a lot on advocates arguing the cases.
He stressed the need for advocates to specialize, particularly in emerging areas of litigation such as international law and cyber crime.
He said acquaintance with forensic science is now a must for those associated with the legal profession.
He said the bar has the strength to raise the capabilities of the advocates to deal with these emerging areas.
He said well-argued cases provide satisfaction to advocates, besides raising institutional credibility.
The Prime Minister said laws are sometimes not drafted well, and therefore lead to multiple interpretations.
He said the bar associations can play a significant role in drafting good laws with minimum grey areas.
He said training in drafting of laws is essential.
The Prime Minister also inaugurated the Bombay High Court Museum.
He said visitors to the museum will learn a lot about India’s judicial history.
In his remarks in the visitors’ book at the Museum, the Prime Minister said that “the High Court Museum is a commendable effort to preserve and perpetuate the rich heritage of this great institution.”
He suggested that a digital version of this museum be also prepared.
He said in many parts of the world, museums are a part of everyday life.
He gave the example of China, which is building many museums currently.
He said India too has a glorious heritage to preserve and showcase.
The Governor of Maharashtra Shri Vidyasagar Rao, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis, and Union Minister Shri D. V. Sadananda Gowda were present on the occasion.
