PM addresses United Nations Summit for the adoption of Post-2015 Development Agenda
PM outlines his Government’s development initiatives; emphasizes the importance of ‘Climate Justice’
PM meets UN Secretary General and World Bank President
PM meets King of Jordan, President of Egypt, Prime Minister of Saint Lucia
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today delivered his statement at the United Nations Summit for the adoption of the Post-2015 Development Agenda.
The Prime Minister outlined his Government’s development initiatives, including in the areas of financial inclusion, individual enterprise and renewable energy.
He said the concept of “climate justice” enables us to display our resolve to protect the poor from natural disasters.
The Prime Minister met the President of the World Bank, Mr. Jim Yong Kim, who praised the Prime Minister’s initiative of Swachh Bharat, and said the Prime Minister’s leadership has led to a positive change in the way the world sees India.
The Prime Minister spoke of his Government’s commitments in the areas of renewable energy, Ganga cleaning and construction of toilets.
The governance structure of the World Bank came up for discussion, with the Prime Minister saying that India should have adequate representation there.
The Prime Minister met UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon.
UN peacekeeping operations and reform of the United Nations Security Council came up for discussion.
On the subject of climate change, the Prime Minister said there is currently a trust deficit between developed and developing countries.
He also said focus should be on positive goals, and not just on reducing emissions.
The Prime Minister met King Abdullah II Ibn Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
The danger posed by ISIS and the issue of terrorism came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister said a global response is required on the issue of terrorism.
The Prime Minister met the President of Egypt, Mr. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
Counter-terrorism and counter-radicalization measures came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister also met Mr. Kenny Davis Anthony, Prime Minister of Saint Lucia.
