Focus on connectivity, cultural contacts and commercial ties.
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today met the President of Myanmar, Mr. U Thein Sein, at the Presidential Palace, shortly after arrival in Nay Pyi Taw.
This was the first meeting between the two leaders, and focus was on connectivity, cultural contacts and commercial ties, during the 45-minute meeting.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Thein Sein reviewed the progress of major connectivity projects between the two countries including the India Myanmar Thailand trilateral highway, and Kaladan transport project.
Both sides see the trilateral highway as an opportunity for industrial cooperation, and sought to explore the possibility of setting up industrial parks along the highway.
The Imphal-Mandalay bus service also came up for discussion.
Both sides reviewed cultural contacts and it was noted that students from Myanmar shall also study at Nalanda University.
President Thein Sein said that as India grows and develops, Myanmar would also benefit.
The possibility of India investing in Special Economic Zones in Myanmar was discussed.
Investment in the oil and gas sector in Myanmar, and India`s assistance in development projects in the agriculture and skill development sectors also came up for discussion.
Shri Narendra Modi recalled the warm communication he had received from President Thein Sein as he assumed the office of the Prime Minister.
President Thein Sein congratulated the Prime Minister and said he had been closely following events in India, and also followed the development model of Gujarat when Shri Narendra Modi was Chief Minister.
President Thein Sein invited Shri Narendra Modi for a bilateral visit.
He said there is a lot of commonality between the two countries and he sees the two countries as brothers.
He also suggested that the Prime Minister visit Bagan and Mandalay.
The Prime Minister accepted the invitation and also extended an invitation to President Thein Sein to visit India.
