Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called upon Indians across the world to convert the atmosphere of hope and optimism into a reality of meeting the expectations and aspirations of India’s people.
Addressing the Indian community at the Allphones Arena in Sydney, the Prime Minister said that on the basis of his experience of the last six months, he could see no reason why the aspirations of millions of Indians could not be fulfilled.
He referred to Swami Vivekananda’s dream of seeing Mother India as a Vishva Guru once again, and said he believed that dream would be a reality.
Do you share the dream, he asked thousands of cheering people in the arena.
The Prime Minister said that he feels a greater sense of responsibility as he is the first Prime Minister born in independent India.
“We did not have the fortune to fight for the country’s independence.
We could not die for India.
But we can live for India.
So we will live and struggle for India.
Today 125 crore Indians share that dream,” he said.
“It took 28 years for an Indian PM to make the few hours journey to Australia.
Now you will not have to wait 28 years,” the Prime Minister said, referring to the shared values of democracy, and the love for cricket that India and Australia share.
The Prime Minister exhorted people to recognize the strength of India’s democracy.
“Let us now do all we can for India’s benefit.
And then India will work for the benefit of mankind,” he said.
The Prime Minister congratulated and complimented the Indian Australian community for working hard and making their karmbhoomi proud.
He named prominent Indian-Australians who had excelled for Australia in sports and academics.
The Prime Minister mentioned the work his Government was doing and the new policies and schemes his Government had launched including the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the Make in India initiative, Swachh Bharat and Shramev Jayate.
The Prime Minister talked about the decision to allow 100% FDI in Railways.
He said he wanted to do humble things for humble people to make a great improvement in their lives.
He spoke of the need to improve access to clean water, electricity and sanitation, inviting the Indian-Australian community to give back to the Motherland in whatever way they could.
He spoke of his vision for skill development, and India meeting the skilled manpower requirement of the whole world.
“Governments cannot make a country.
People make a country,” the Prime Minister said.
He spoke of his initiative to abolish needless laws and his push for self-certification of documents.
The Prime Minister said the differences between OCI and PIO schemes would be ended by January 2015.
The Sydney Cultural Center would be established by the Government of India and made functional by February 2015.
