Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today called upon NCC cadets to plan a unique nationwide celebration of the first International Yoga Day on June 21st.
Addressing cadets from across the country on the occasion of the NCC Rally, the Prime Minister urged NCC cadets to work towards a record-setting performance, which would send a strong inspirational message across the world.
He said Yoga has now acquired a global character, and as the country in which Yoga originated, we should show the world that Yoga can be an important component of a balanced, strong mankind.
Speaking about a tableau dedicated to Swachh Bharat presented by the cadets, the Prime Minister said this initiative was aimed at imbibing cleanliness as a habit among 125 crore Indians.
He urged the cadets to spread awareness on this theme in their schools and villages.
He said work done for Swachh Bharat is also service of Mother India.
The Prime Minister complimented the cadets for the efforts they had put in over the last one month.
He observed that girl cadets had participated in large numbers.
He also recalled that on Republic Day, the entire parade seemed to have become a celebration of “Stree Shakti” (women power).
He said that people across the country had now got the message that Rani Lakshmibai and Jija Mata are today present in every village and every family.
The Prime Minister said the cadets assembled before him today come from all parts of the country, and therefore represent a mini-India.
He said people such as Swami Vivekananda and Mahatma Gandhi had travelled across the country to imbibe the soul of India in themselves.
He said it was necessary to travel through the country to understand its diversity, and this opportunity for the cadets was an opportunity in that direction.
The Prime Minister said the NCC Rally today had brought back memories of his own childhood as an NCC cadet, though he had not got the opportunity to come to Delhi, as a cadet.
He appreciated the assembled cadets for the effort they would have put in, to be selected to come to Delhi, in connection with the Republic Day celebrations, of which this rally is a part.
