Greeting the Teachers’ community, and paying tribute to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on Teachers’ Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that teachers inspire as well as inform, educate and enlighten.
In an email sent to lakhs of teachers, the Prime Minister mentioned their tremendous influence on the lives of children, and added that the values inculcated by teachers stay with the students for a lifetime.
The Prime Minister quoted former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam, who had said: “Teaching is a very noble profession that shapes the character, calibre and future of an individual.”
Shri Narendra Modi said that the 21st century will be shaped by societies that accord topmost importance to education, research, and innovation.
“Needless to say, this makes the role of our teachers extremely vital,” he added.
“I am sure you are keeping up-to-date with the latest advances in technology and further connecting your students with the technological trends,” the Prime Minister wrote in his letter to teachers.
He also mentioned some of the efforts that the Government of India is undertaking to bring about a paradigm shift in the education sector.
“Thanks to the monumental efforts of teachers like you, the focus has successfully shifted from outlays to outcomes, from teaching to learning.
The emphasis on skill development has received a significant push due to the Atal Tinkering Labs.
Numerous universities are being set up across India so that no youngster is denied the joys of quality education,” the Prime Minister said.
Noting that on 2nd October, we mark the start of the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi, the Prime Minister exhorted the teaching community to take the lead in furthering the thoughts and noble ideals of Bapu in an innovative manner, among the students.
He appreciated the “stupendous role of the teaching community in strengthening the Swachh Bharat Mission.”
Reiterating his vision of a New India by 2022, when we mark 75 years of freedom, the Prime Minister urged the teaching community to devote the coming four years towards fulfilling the dreams and vision of those who gave their lives for our freedom.
“I urge you to focus on any issue close to your heart, mobilise local communities and make a positive difference in the lives of those around you.
This would be a fitting tribute to our freedom fighters and further the resolve to build a New India,” the Prime Minister said.
