The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today held bilateral meetings with African leaders on the sidelines of the India Africa Forum Summit in New Delhi.
The Prime Minister met Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of Zimbabwe, and Chairman of African Union.
They discussed issues of common interest, including UN Reform and the threat of terrorism.
The Prime Minister spoke of the close bilateral ties between India and Zimbabwe.
President Mugabe is the co-chair for the India Africa Forum Summit, and the two leaders reviewed the preparations for the Summit.
The Prime Minister met President John Dramani Mahama of Ghana.
Warm ties between the two countries and growing bilateral trade came up for discussion.
Areas of cooperation including agriculture, IT, skill development, cyber security and maritime security figured in the talks.
The Prime Minister met the King of Swaziland H.E. Mswati III.
The King spoke of his vision for his country’s development, including areas such as infrastructure, renewable energy and skill development.
The Prime Minister complimented the Swaziland King on his leadership and vision, and offered assistance in its development.
The Prime Minister met Dr. Boni Yayi, President of Benin.
The growing economic relationship between the two countries, and areas of cooperation such as agricultural mechanization, power generation, water supply and transportation came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister met Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of Nigeria.
Oil exploration, defence cooperation, and UN reform were among the areas were discussed at the meeting.
During the meeting between Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President of Kenya, and the Prime Minister, areas of cooperation including healthcare, infrastructure and mutual trade and economic relations came up for discussion.
The historical ties between the two countries and the large Indian diaspora in Kenya were mentioned.
Terrorism and UN reform also came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister met President Jacob Zuma of South Africa.
Both leaders recalled the historical ties between the two countries.
Issues of terrorism, reform of the United Nations Security Council, and reform of institutions of global governance, came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister met the President of Uganda, Mr. Yoheri Museveni.
The two leaders discussed ways to enhance prosperity and mutual understanding between the two countries.
