Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today met UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon on the sidelines of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit in Gandhinagar.
Issues related to climate change, environment and clean energy came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister highlighted initiatives taken by his Government in the clean and renewable energy sectors.
The Prime Minister met US Secretary of State John Kerry.
Discussions focused on the upcoming visit of US President Barack Obama to India.
Both sides agreed that the visit would add momentum to the India-US strategic partnership.
They also expressed satisfaction that issues relating to WTO Trade Facilitation had been satisfactorily resolved.
Counter-terror cooperation, economic matters, and issues of regional interest also figured in the talks.
Counter terror cooperation was also a key theme in the Prime Minister’s meeting with Canada’s Minister of Citizenship and Immigration Chris Alexander.
The Prime Minister condemned the attack on Canada’s Parliament, and stressed the need for a zero-tolerance approach to terror.
The Prime Minister said he looked forward to visiting Canada.
The Prime Minister met Israel’s Agriculture Minister Mr. Yair Shamir.
Both sides sought to further enhance cooperation in the Agriculture sector.
The Prime Minister invited Israel to take advantage of the Make in India initiative and establish high-end manufacturing centres in India.
The Prime Minister met Dr. Akbar Torkan, Senior Advisor to the President of Iran.
Both sides reviewed progress in the implementation of the Chahbahar Port Project.
Energy cooperation and regional issues also came up for discussion.
The Prime Minister met the President of the World Bank Jim Yong Kim.
Climate change and clean energy came up for discussion.
In his meeting with the Prime Minister of Macedonia, both sides agreed on the need to enhance trade and investment ties.
The Governor of Astrakhan, Russia, Alexander Zhilkin, invited investment from India during his meeting with the Prime Minister.
