The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will embark his visit to Portugal, USA and Netherlands tomorrow.
The PM said that this visit is aimed at enhancing the bilateral engagement in various areas.
“I will pay a working visit to Portugal on 24 June 2017.
Our close historical and friendly ties have picked up momentum after H.E. Prime Minister Antonio Costa’s visit to India in January 2017.
I am looking forward to my meeting with PM Costa.
Building on our recent discussions, we will review the progress of various joint initiatives and decisions.
We will also discuss ways to further enhance the bilateral engagement, especially in the areas of economic cooperation, science & technology, space collaboration and people to people ties.
We will deliberate on means to intensify our cooperation in counter-terrorism and on other international issues of mutual interest.
I also see significant potential for deepening bilateral trade and investment ties.
I am also keen to interact with the Indian Community in Portugal during the visit”, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister will be visiting Washington, D.C. on 24-26 June.
“I will be visiting Washington, D.C. on 24-26 June at the invitation of President Donald J. Trump.
President Trump and I have spoken on telephone prior to this.
Our conversations have touched upon our common intent to take forward our productive all round engagement for the mutual benefit of our people.
I look forward to this opportunity to have an in depth exchange of views on further consolidating the robust and wide ranging partnership between India and the United States.
India’s partnership with the United States is multi-layered and diverse, supported by not just Governments but all the stakeholders on both sides.
I look forward to building a forward looking vision for our partnership with the new Administration in the United States under President Trump.
Apart from official meetings with President Trump and his cabinet colleagues, I will be meeting some prominent American CEOs.
As in the past, I look forward to interacting with the Indian diaspora in the United States as well.”
The PM will also visit the Netherlands on 27 June 2017.
“I will be visiting the Netherlands on 27 June 2017.
We are celebrating 70 years of the establishment of Indo-Dutch diplomatic relations this year.
During the visit, I will have an official meeting with the Dutch Prime Minister H.E. Mr. Mark Rutte.
I will also call on King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands and meet Queen Maxima.
I look forward to meeting Prime Minister Rutte and reviewing our bilateral relations.
I would be exchanging views with PM Rutte on important global issues including counter-terrorism and climate change.
Economic relations form the core of our bilateral relations.
The Netherlands is our 6th largest trading partner in the EU and 5th largest investment partner globally.
The Dutch expertise in areas such as water and waste management, agriculture and food processing, renewable energy and ports and shipping, matches with our development needs.
Indo-Dutch economic engagement is a win-win proposition.
I will discuss with PM Rutte as to how the two sides should work to further harness the synergies.
I will also be meeting with CEOs of major Dutch companies and will encourage them to join the Indian growth story.
There are strong people to people relations between the two countries with the presence of second largest Indian Diaspora in Europe in the Netherlands.
I look forward to engaging with the Indian community in the Netherlands”, the Prime Minster said.
