PM calls for introspection on “Shiksha Ki Sanskriti” – the culture of education.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today launched the Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching at the Swatantrata Bhawan in Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi.
Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister described the land of Kashi, as one which gave us “Shiksha Ki Sanskriti” (a culture of education).
We need to introspect whether we are losing this culture of education, the Prime Minister said.
He said the education system is not meant to produce robots, but to develop a holistic humanist vision (Poorna Maanav Mann) along with science and technology.
Whenever humanity has entered the age of knowledge, India has played the role of Vishvaguru, the Prime Minister said, adding that the 21st century is therefore an age of immense responsibility for India, as the world is again entering the age of knowledge.
The Prime Minister said “good education” is in great demand across the world and among all sections of society.
He said India`s youth can fulfil this global requirement of teachers, if they are trained effectively.
He said if a teacher goes abroad, he benefits and captures the imagination of an entire generation.
He said the Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching is a step in this direction.
The Prime Minister also unveiled the plaque of the Inter-University Centre, and launched the Campus Connect wi-fi of Banaras Hindu University by remote control.
The Prime Minister also launched the Varanasi Mahotsav.
He gave away prizes to six craftsmen under the YUKTI initiative.
Speaking about this initiative, the Prime Minister said it will make it possible to skill our craftsmen through the use of appropriate technology interventions.
The Prime Minister said events such as the Varanasi Mahotsav would help boost tourism.
He called upon schools and educational institutions of Varanasi to develop expertise in various aspects of Varanasi’s rich culture, which would help them contribute towards drawing the attention of tourists visiting Varanasi.
He said tourists would come to Varanasi, because of its ancient heritage, but would stay only if the people of Varanasi made the effort to showcase that heritage.
Describing the strength of India’s heritage, the Prime Minister spoke of the recent adoption of International Yoga Day by the United Nations.
He said a record number of 177 countries had supported India’s resolution, and it had been adopted within a record time of 90 days.
The Prime Minister exhorted artists and poets to touch upon contemporary issues such as “swachhta” (cleanliness) and the welfare of the girl child, so that greater awareness is generated about these vital subjects, in the society.
Minister for Human Resource Development Smt.
Smriti Irani and Union MoS (I/C) Shri Mahesh Sharma were also present on the occasion.
