Prime Minister of Nepal, Shri Sushil Koirala called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on telephone this morning.
He briefed Prime Minister on the steps his government is taking for rehabilitation and reconstruction in Nepal following the earthquakes in April and May 2015.
Prime Minister Koirala invited Prime Minister Modi to visit Nepal on June 25, 2015 to address the First Donors’ Conference being hosted by Government of Nepal in Kathmandu.
Prime Minister Koirala also mentioned that he has sent his Finance Minister, Shri Ram Chandra Mahat to Delhi with a personal invitation for Prime Minister Modi.
Prime Minister Koirala also briefed Prime Minister Modi on the recent political developments, including drafting of the Constitution.
Prime Minister Koirala congratulated Prime Minister Modi on a successful visit to Bangladesh, describing it as yet another example of Prime Minister Modi’s successful “Neighbours First Policy” and his commitment to deepen relations with India’s neighbours.
He congratulated Prime Minister on the historic agreements signed in Dhaka and welcomed Prime Minister’s support for sub-regional connectivity between Bhutan, Bangladesh, India and Nepal.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi reiterated India’s unwavering and sustained support to Nepal in his rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts, guided by the preference and priorities of Government of Nepal.
He assured Prime Minister Koirala that India would respect and be with Nepal in all its decisions in this regard.
Prime Minister reaffirmed that India has always been guided by humanitarian concerns in a spirit of equality and friendship.
Prime Minister Modi conveyed his best wishes for the Donor’s Conference in Kathmandu.
He thanked Prime Minister Koirala for the invitation, conveyed that he would participate, if his schedule permitted, and assured him that India would, in any case, be represented at a high ministerial level.
Prime Minister also conveyed his appreciation to Prime Minister Koirala on the progress in the political process on drafting of the Constitution and conveyed his best wishes for the successful conclusion of the peace process and adoption of a Constitution.
He reiterated that India’s only desire was success, peace and progress for the people of Nepal.
