I am visiting the United States from 26 to 30 September 2014.
I will attend the United Nations General Assembly in New York and, thereafter, visit Washington DC on 29-30 September 2014 for a bilateral summit with the U.S. President Barack Obama.
Since its participation as a founding member of the United Nations in 1945, India has shown unwavering commitment to multilateral processes to advance peace and security and promote broad-based inclusive economic development in the world.
India`s contribution to UN peacekeeping operations over decades is a strong testimony of our efforts to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the UN charter.
The 69th session of the UN General Assembly is meeting at a moment of many pressing challenges for the international community – a still fragile global economy, turbulence and tension in many parts of the world, growth and spread of terrorism, the Ebola health crisis in Africa, climate change and the endemic global challenge of poverty.
I will call for a stronger global commitment and more concerted multilateral action in meeting these challenges.
I will urge early adoption of the Post-2015 Development Agenda with focus on growth, development and elimination of poverty.
As we head towards the 70th Session of the UNGA in 2015, I will also stress the urgency of early reforms in the United Nations, to ensure that it remains relevant and effective in dealing with the challenges of the 21st Century.
I will also meet the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon and leaders from other countries on the margins of the UNGA.
The New York leg of my visit will also cover important elements of our bilateral relations with the United States.
I look forward to meeting business leaders to invite them to participate more actively in India`s economic growth and transformation.
This is message that I will also convey to the U.S. business community in Washington DC.
My participation in a public event in Central Park in New York that on poverty is to focus international attention on this great challenge for humanity and affirm my support for global civic action, especially involving the youth, to address it.
I keenly await the opportunity to meet the Indian American Community at the Madison Square Garden in New York.
Their success in diverse fields, their contribution to the United States, their abiding bonds with India and their role as a vibrant bridge between the two largest democracies is a source of pride for us.
They serve as a window to our heritage, progress and potential.
I look forward to meeting President Obama over two days in Washington DC.
This will be my first meeting with him.
His life`s journey is a remarkable testimony to the rights and opportunities that democracies provide, and an inspiration for people around the world.
Shared values, convergent interests and complementary strengths provide the foundation for natural partnership between the world`s oldest and largest democracies.
I see the United States as a vital partner for our national development, drawing especially on the rich possibilities of partnership in education, skills, research, technology and innovation – and, above all, a shared commitment to human values.
Working together, and with others, we can bridge the many divisions of our times and contribute to building a more peaceful, stable, secure, sustainable and prosperous world.
I will discuss with President Obama how we can use the strength of all that we share and all that we have built so far to take our relationship to a new level in the interest of our two countries and the cause of this world.
I am confident that the visit will mark the start of a new chapter in our strategic partnership.
