A new paradigm to the PPP model involving all stakeholders in decision-making process.
PM: Wish to change the “ABCD Culture” (Avoid, Bypass, Confuse, Delay) of Government.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today said his Government was adding a new paradigm to the PPP (Public Private Partnership) model, by involving all stakeholders in key decision-making processes.
Addressing participants of the National Workshop on “Make in India” at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi today, the Prime Minister said that this workshop had not only discussed the concerns of various stakeholders, but also taken steps to find ways to collectively address them.
He said that the Government had hitherto operated in secrecy, but this workshop was an example of openness, and working together to achieve desired goals.
The Prime Minister said this was an example of his vision of “Minimum Government.
Maximum Governance.”
He said the decisions taken today at this workshop, would have taken years in normal course.
The Prime Minister said one of his main goals has been to break down the silos in which Government operates.
Recalling the `Make in India` launch in September, the Prime Minister said that in the last three months the government machinery has geared up, and is now ready to change rules and laws, and speed up processes.
The Prime Minister said he wished to change the “ABCD” culture of Government – “Avoid.
Bypass.
Confuse.
Delay;” and change it to the ROAD to success – “Responsibility.
Ownership.
Accountability.
Discipline.”
The Prime Minister said Human Resource Development, Innovation and Research should become part of the Government`s DNA.
He said these should be aligned to the nation`s overall goals in various sectors.
He added that he would be meeting the banking sector on this subject in the first week of January.
He called upon all sectors of manufacturing in India to take inspiration from the “Space” sector, and the achievements of India`s space scientists.
The Prime Minister said growth should be balanced across India, and special efforts should be made to ensure that the east, which is rich in natural resources, should be as developed as the western part of the country.
He called for making a globally recognized “Brand India” famous for “Zero Defect, Zero Effect” Manufacturing – free from defects, and with no adverse impact on the environment.
He said he wanted maximum movement of Men, Money, Machinery, Materials and Minerals across the country.
The Prime Minister was given presentations on Ease of Doing Business, Skill Development, Revenue, Leather and Leather Products, Gems and Jewellery, Capital Goods, Automobiles, Auto Components, Oil and Gas, Power, Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Basic Metals and Cement, Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology, Food Processing, Textiles, Tourism, Information Technology, Aerospace and Defence, Aviation, Space, Shipping, Railways, MSME, New and Renewable Energy, and Media and Entertainment by senior Government officials.
Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley summed up the discussions.
MoS (I/C) Smt.
Nirmala Sitharaman welcomed the Prime Minister and set the tone for the presentations to the Prime Minister.
