PM to Japanese business community: Come.
Make in India.
“India is incomplete without Japan.
Japan is incomplete without India.”
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has urged the Japanese business community to resolve to “Make in India” and assured them that they will receive a conducive business environment in India.
Delivering the keynote address at an event hosted by Nikkei Inc. and Japan External Trade Organization, the Prime Minister said that if we can replicate in India the work culture, governance, efficiency and discipline that exists in Japan, Japanese business will feel comfortable in doing business in India. will feel comfortable in India.
Stating that huge possibilities for cooperation existed between the two countries, the Prime Minister said India wants to give an environment to Japanese business to make in India, whatever they wished to supply to the world.
He highlighted the possibilities of low-cost manufacturing, skilled manpower and ease of doing business that existed in India.
He said that within the first 100 days itself, his Government had moved to cut red tape and ease restrictions for doing business.
He said wherever in the world Japanese business wanted to sell, India was the best location to manufacture.
Talking about India’s leadership in software, and Japan’s leadership in hardware, the Prime Minister highlighted that both were incomplete without each other.
“India is incomplete without Japan.
Japan is incomplete without India,” the Prime Minister said.
Giving some more examples of the huge potential for business in India, the Prime Minister said 50 cities were in the queue for metro trains, and a huge demand existed for electronic goods.
Nowhere else in the world will you find the combination of democracy, demographics and demand, that exists in India, the Prime Minister said.
He also spoke of emerging possibilities due to the Digital India mission and a thrust on solar energy.
In response to a question on whether there is a contradiction between nationalism and globalization, the Prime Minister gave the example of Lord Buddha to say that one’s identity can be retained while globalizing.
He said that India believes in the concept of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, the whole world as one family, and therefore he saw no contradiction between globalization and nationalism.
