Prime Minister Tony Abbott, Leader of the Opposition, Ministers, Leaders of Victoria, Friends, All the eminent people gathered here and Our great cricketers,
This has been/ an extraordinary visit to Australia.
You hosted a great G20 Summit.
It showcased Australia`s global role.
In the past four days, I have experienced everything that Australia is known for natural beauty, sunshine, great cities, friendly and cheerful people, organisational skills and strengths that have made you an economic force in the world.
Prime Minister, you have been truly generous with your hospitality and warmth.
I am deeply honoured that you have come to Melbourne to host such a wonderful reception.
This memory will stay with me forever;
But, I can tell you that all Indians are deeply touched by this Reception.
Many Indians wake up early on a cold December morning to watch on TV a Boxing Day Test at this magnificent stadium!
I know that India has not done particularly well in this ground!
But, we won the 1985 Champions Trophy here.
And, Gavaskar and Kapil Dev are here!
As is Laxman, who especially loved to bat against Australia.
To speak to you at this historic ground comes close to scoring a century here especially against McGrath and Brett Lee.
I met him yesterday.
The best I managed was to head the Gujarat Cricket Association.
This would be a deserving venue for the Cricket World Cup finals 2015.
I hope that our two teams will play that match.
No business is serious enough to keep an Australian and an Indian / from discussing this great game.
We can learn from Australia`s famous sporting skills in other areas, too.
And we have decided to collaborate on a Sports University in India.
What we also see is the importance of relationships between people.
It is said that Melbourne is the best city in the world to live in.
Sydney might not agree!
India can learn from Australian experience and benefit from your expertise.
India is experiencing urbanisation at a rapid pace.
Studies suggest that by 2031 11% of the world`s urban population might be in Indian cities.
We already have over 50 cities which have a population of more than 1 million.
Urbanisation can be an enormous opportunity.
In India, we have yet to build much of our urban infrastructure for the future.
Our plans include 100 smart cities; revival of heritage cities; building modern solid waste management and waste water treatment systems in 500 cities; and, cleaning up our rivers.
This is part of our larger vision of a sustainable future for our country, and transforming the quality of life of our people.
In cities and villages alike.
I want to build a future, when every Indian, can say, yes, my life has improved and my environment has become better.
I am confident that we will achieve it with the support of the people of India, and through the talent and energy of 800 million youth, below the age of 35 A generation that is eager for change and committed to work for it.
A successful India will be a vast opportunity and a force of good for the world.
We look forward to closer partnership / with friends like Australia.
Prime Minister Abbott and I have spent a good part of this week together in two countries and four cities.
I have also met the political leadership, business leaders and the vibrant Indian community.
We have achieved a lot in the last few days.
One thing we all agree on.
The bonds between the countries are made strong by joined hands of our people.
So, our exchanges in sports, tourism, education and culture are great source of strength for our relationship.
As I see the warmth and friendship for India today and over the last five days.
I feel great confidence in the future of our relationship.
My memorable visit to Australia // ends tonight, but a new journey of our relationship has begun.
Thank you / and hope you are all coming to India soon!
