The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel today co-chaired the 4th India Germany Inter-Govermental Consultations in Berlin.
Addressing the media after the meeting, Prime Minister Modi appreciated Chancellor Merkel’s vision for Europe and for the world.
He said outcome oriented momentum is perceptible in relations between the two countries.
The Prime Minister said foreign investment from Germany to India is rising, especially for the Make in India initiative.
The Prime Minister said German partnership is important for the Skill India Mission, with German parameters being “global benchmarks” which are crucial for India.
The Prime Minister said cooperation is also envisaged in the sports arena, particularly in football.
The Prime Minister spoke of themes such as climate protection and smart cities, which came up for discussion.
He said German innovation and Indian youth could together add great dynamism in the start-up space.
The Prime Minister said a global order based on democracy is the need of the hour, in an interconnected and interdependent world.
Responding to a question, he said Germany and India are “made for each other.”
He explained the huge synergy that exists between German capabilities and Indian requirements.
He spoke of India’s pursuit of excellence in areas such as engineering, infrastructure and skill development.
Describing the values of innovation and democracy, as a blessing for mankind, he said India and Germany share these values.
In response to a question on climate change, the Prime Minister reiterated India’s timeless values of nurturing and protecting nature.
He recalled India’s commitment to generate 175 GigaWatts of energy from renewable sources by 2022.
Emphasizing the importance of protecting nature, the Prime Minister said “playing with the well-being of future generations would be an immoral and criminal act.”
Earlier, during the IGC, Prime Minister Modi emphasized the big role that the European Union has to play in nurturing a rule-based global order.
Both leaders shared deep concern over the global menace of terrorism, and decided to strengthen mutual counter-terrorism initiatives.
The Prime Minister thanked Germany for support of Indian membership of export control regimes.
Themes such as clean coal, electric mobility, science and technology cooperation, cyber-security and aviation security came up for discussion.
The consultations also touched upon Afghanistan and other global matters.
Both countries signed 12 agreements.
A comprehensive joint statement was also issued, covering various aspects of the negotiations.
