The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval for revised cost estimates for Phase-I of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project for Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.
The original cost has been enhanced by Rs. 835 crore to Rs. 2331.71 crore from Rs. 1496.71 crore.
This will address the vulnerability of coastal communities to cyclone.
This section of the population is generally poor and from the weaker sections of society.
The Central Government will provide financial assistance equivalent to Rs. 1843.94 crore through a World Bank loan.
The remaining amount of Rs. 487.77 crore will be contributed by the State Governments of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.
The broad objectives of the project are to provide cyclone forecasting, tracking and warning systems, cyclone risk mitigation and capacity building in multi-hazard risk management.
The major infrastructure being constructed includes multipurpose cyclone shelters (including shelter-cum-godown and approach roads/bridges to habitations) and embankments (including construction and renovation of saline embankments).
The investments proposed in the States would strengthen the coastal infrastructure for protection of the coastal community and their evacuation, greater accessibility, improved warning dissemination and quicker response.
The project is expected to benefit 10.46 lakh persons in Odisha and over 7.18 lakh persons in Andhra Pradesh.
It will help protection of 38,296 hectares of land in Odisha and about 12,640 hectares in Andhra Pradesh.
The increased cost will cater to the construction of additional infrastructure (246 multipurpose cyclone shelters, 204 kms. of roads and 15 bridges) for cyclone risk mitigation in these States, on the basis of the experience gained during the handling of Cyclone Phailin.
This cyclone affected these States in October, 2013.
The time limit of the project has been extended from 31st January, 2016 to 31st March, 2018 to complete the construction of additional infrastructure.
Background:-
Approximately 5700 km out of around 7516 km of India’s coastline, its flat coastal terrain and high population density are extremely vulnerable to cyclones and its associated hazards such as storm surges, high winds and heavy rainfall.
Approximately 40 percent of total population in the maritime States lives within 100 km of the coastlines.
Recurrent cyclones account for a large number of deaths, loss of livelihood opportunities, loss of public and private property, and severe damage to infrastructure.
This reverses developmental gains at regular intervals.
