The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval for setting up of three new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AllMS) at Nagpur in Maharashtra, at Manglagiri in Andhra Pradesh and at Kalyani in West Bengal under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY).
This involves financial implication of Rs.4949 crore.
The new AIIMS will be established as institutes of national importance for providing quality medical education, nursing education and also to provide tertiary healthcare facilities to the people of these locations.
The proposed institution shall have a hospital with capacity of 960 beds.
In addition, there shall be a teaching block, administrative block, AYUSH block, auditorium, nursing college, night shelter, hostel and residential facilities.
Of the total expenditure of Rs. 4949 crore, the cost of the new AIIMS at Manglagiri in Andhra Pradesh will be to the tune of Rs. 1618 crore, at Nagpur in Maharashtra of Rs.1577 crore and at Kalyani in West Bengal of Rs. 1754 crore.
Setting up of these AIIMS will address regional imbalances in availability of affordable and reliable tertiary health care services in these regions.
It will augment the facilities of quality medical education and would also address the shortfall of health care professionals in these regions.
The large populations of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra (Vidarbha) and West Bengal along with adjoining States and region will be beneficiary of this project.
Six new AIIMS under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY) have been made functional.
Also construction of AIIMS, Rae Barely is under progress.
Background:-
This approval is in accordance with the announcement made by Union Finance Minister in his Budget Speech 2014-15 establishing new AIIMS at these places.
This also fulfils the promise made under the Andhra Pradesh re-organization Act 2014 that provides for establishment of one AIIMS type institute in the successor State of Andhra Pradesh.
