The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval for signing and ratifying of the Inter-Governmental Agreement on Dry Ports of International Importance for signature at the United Nations Headquarters in New York.
This is a follow up of the Resolution of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP) regarding development of dry ports within member countries of UNESCAP, including India.
This current agreement promotes international recognition of dry ports, facilitates investment in infrastructure, improves operational efficiency of inter modal transport services, establishes guiding principles for development and operation of dry ports and enhances the environmental sustainability of freight transport.
The agreement will help in connectivity and integration of the Asian highway network, the trans-Asian railways network and other modes by working towards development of dry ports.
There is need to promote and develop an international integrated intermodal transport and logistics system in Asia with its neighbouring regions.
The agreement will facilitate and expand international goods transport as a consequence of growing international trade in the region.
The agreement will also lead to strengthening of connectivity and seamless international movement of goods, facilitate increased efficiency and reduce cost of transport and logistics as well as extend reach to inland areas and wider hinterlands.
Background:
With a view to strengthen relations and promote international trade among members of the ESCAP, it is essential to develop dry ports of international importance for transport integration and to reduce the adverse impact of transport on the environment.
It will make the role of dry ports an important component of an effective and efficient international integrated intermodal transport and logistics system, especially in addressing the specific needs of landlocked, transit and coastal States.
17 countries have signed this Agreement as informed by UNESCAP so far.
These are Armenia, Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Iran, the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam.
The agreement is an outcome of the ESCAP resolution 66/4 of 19th May, 2010 on the implementation of the Bangkok Declaration on Transport Development in Asia and the request contained to work towards the development of an inter-Governmental agreement on dry ports.
