I congratulate Rail Minister Suresh Prabhu, on presenting a thoughtful budget for the dynamic Railways of a progressive nation.
This budget strives for the dignity of the poor, honour of the women, enthusiasm of the youth and broadening the smile of the middle class.
This budget presents an optimistic strategy for the future, while giving a complete account of the promises made in the budget of previous year.
We have achieved a lot in the past one year and this budget presents an effort to make it further better.
Cleanliness and upgradation of passenger facilities and technology remains the basic Mantra of last two budgets.
Beside this, Railway projects have been defined on the basis of ‘Commissioning’, in place of ‘Completion’.
I believe this policy-transformation is a Paradigm-shift in nation’s economy.
The special arrangement of the ‘Super-fast trains’ for the poor through launch of Antodaya Express and Deen-Dyalu rail coaches , reiterate the commitment of our government to the poor.
This budget will have long-term positive impact on the national economy by effective execution, enhanced capital investment and infusion of technology along with IT, in the Railways.
Appropriate steps has been taken towards fulfilling the Government’s promise to enhance connectivity in the backward areas of the country, especially the North-East.
Beside, the chronic problem of our rail routes due to the lack of capacity, has been done away with to a large extent over the past one year.
This Rail Budget has further strengthened the measures..
We have seen the budgets before Mr. Suresh Prabhu.
I don’t want to criticize those, but if I see the Budgets of last five years by the previous Government, the Budget by Suresh Prabhuji has taken a big jump with 2.5 times higher investment.
This budget will be an important tool towards the renovation of the nation.
The best thing is that the State Governments are also enthusiastically participating in the expansion of our Railways.
A detailed road-map in this direction has also been presented.
Along with that an effort has been made to seek the co-operation of Passengers and the Railway Employees, as well.
Discipline in spending, efficiency in management and accountability to the consumer is the focus of our Government, which is reflected in this budget.
My congratulations once to the Railways Minister Mr. Suresh Prabhu, Rail Family and the Team Railway.
Thank You very much.
