How are you doing, New York… I hope, you are having, a good time…
Namaste.
My greetings, to all those, watching on TVs, laptops, tablets and phones, as well.
This, is a great city.
It has assimilated, the world, in itself.
Today, you have shown, that you also care, for the world outside.
I am truly delighted, to be here.
In the open Central Park.
And not inside, a closed Conference Room… Among the Youth.
Among you.
Because, you are the future.
What you do Today, will decide, our Tomorrow.
I feel, a current of hope, in this Park.
Among you, I feel confident about the future…
You are touching, the lives of those, who are not as fortunate, as you are.
What an admirable act, this is.
What a sacred mission.
For you to think, about those, who are far.
Whose faces, you have not seen.
Whose names, you do not know.
Whose nationality, does not matter to you.
For you to convert, your thoughts into action.
And devote, your time, and energy.
So that others, may have a better future too.
Those living in poverty.
Without education.
Without basic sanitation.
Without opportunity.
And worse, without hope.
I salute you.
I feel proud, of each one of you.
I am sure, your families, your friends, your nation, feels just as proud.
Some believe, that the world changes, with the wisdom of the old.
I think, that the idealism, innovation, energy and ‘can do’ attitude, of the youth, is even more powerful.
That is my hope, for India too.
800 million youth, joining hands, to transform our nation.
To put, the light of hope, in every eye.
And, the joy of belief, in every heart.
Lift people, out of poverty.
Put clean water, and sanitation, within the reach of all.
Make healthcare, available to all.
A roof, over every head.
I know, it is possible… Because, I feel, a new sense of purpose, energy, and will, in India.
Because, India’s youth, can see that, you are joining hands, with them.
Because, I believe, that we can speak with one voice.
For one future…
That, is why, I am here.
Because, I believe in you…
Let me end, with a few lines in Sanskrit, that inspire me, personally:
सर्वे भवन्तु सुखिनः। सर्वे सन्तु निरामयाः। सर्वे भद्राणि पश्यन्तु। मा कश्चित् दुःख भाग्भवेत्॥ ॐ शान्तिः शान्तिः शान्तिः ॥
May All, be prosperous, and happy.
May All, be free from illness.
May All, see what is spiritually uplifting.
May no one, suffer.
Om Peace, Peace, Peace…
Thank you once again, for having me over.
Thanks in particular, to Hugh Jackman here.
God bless you all.
May the Force be with You…
