Budget will empower the poor, give a boost to the farmer and an impetus to economic growth: PM 12 crore farmers and their families, 3 crores middle class taxpayers will be directly benefitted: PM Farmers having land under 5 acres will be greatly helped by the PM Kisan Nidhi Unorganised sector’s interests to be safeguarded more by the PM Shram Yogi Man Dhan Yojana
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded the budget as the budget for New India which will energise the nation.
In a series of Tweets and the statement after the presentation of interim budget 2019-20, PM said that over 12 crore farmers and their families, over 3 crores middle class tax payers professionals and their families and 30-40 crore labourers will gain thanks to the Budget for New India.
PM said, the development initiatives of the NDA government have touched several lives which have been reflected in the budget proposals from farmer welfare to middle class, from income tax relief to infrastructure, from manufacturing to MSME, from housing to healthcare and from the increased pace of development to the New India,
He expressed happiness that it is good to see more people being removed from the shackles of poverty.
Our Neo-middle class is rising and so are their dreams.
PM congratulated the middle class for the relief in taxes and said, I salute the middle class for their stellar contribution towards the development of the nation.
About the pro-farmer initiatives in the budget, he lamented that for years, many initiatives have been initiated for farmers but sadly, lot of farmers never came under the ambit of these schemes.
He said that PM Kisan Nidhi is a historic step for farmer welfare which will help the farmers who have under 5 acres of land.
PM added that the animal husbandry sector, fisheries have been taken care of in the Budget for New India.
Underlining the importance of safeguarding the interests of the unorganised sector, he said PM Shram Yogi Man Dhan Yojana will be of great help.
This sector needed more safeguarding of their interests and the Budget for New India has done so.
Ayushman Bharat Yojana and social security schemes are also going to touch their lives, PM added.
PM summed it up saying that it is essential to ensure the benefits of development reach all sections of society.
He said,” The budget will empower the poor, give a boost to the farmer and an impetus to the economic growth.”
