The Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency calls on PM
Mr Yukiya Amano, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency called on Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today.
The Prime Minister lauded IAEA for its enormous contribution to the promotion of safe and secure use of atomic science for peace and development in the world – goals that India shared.
He thanked Director General Amano for his leadership in focusing IAEA’s efforts on human development, including food security and health; for enhancing safety standards in nuclear power plants and other facilities; and, for IAEA’s continuing high standards in its regulatory role.
The Prime Minister attached special importance to IAEA’s crucial role in generating public awareness and confidence on safety aspects; and, in supporting efforts to make nuclear power more affordable.
The Prime Minister recalled India’s excellent relations with IAEA since India became a founding member of the agency.
As a member of the Board of Governor of IAEA, India, he emphasised, attached utmost importance to advancing the goals of IAEA.
The Prime Minister conveyed that he considered nuclear energy to be vital for supporting economic development in India, meeting the energy needs of our people and addressing the challenge of climate change.
At the same time, he sought to place special emphasis on using atomic science for addressing the needs of ordinary citizens, by application in areas like health care, agriculture, food preservation, clean water and waste management.
He reiterated India’s commitment to maintaining the highest global standards of nuclear safety and security.
Director General Amano expressed appreciation and admiration for the India’s progress in nuclear science and technology, focus on developmental aspects, commitment to the highest levels of safety and security standards, and record as a responsible nuclear power; the excellent relations between IAEA and India; India’s contribution to the work of IAEA; and, India’s assistance to neighbouring and other countries in the peaceful and developmental aspects of nuclear science.
