Meeting in Tokyo on 1 September 2014, the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and the Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to realize the full potential of India – Japan Strategic and Global Partnership for continuing progress and prosperity for their people and for advancing peace, stability and prosperity in Asia and the world.
Elevating the relationship to a Special Strategic and Global Partnership, they called their meeting the dawn of a new era in India – Japan relations.
Prime Minister Abe expressed his deep appreciation for Prime Minister Modi`s choice of Japan as his first destination for a bilateral visit outside India`s immediate neighbourhood.
Prime Minister Modi described this decision as a reflection of Japan’s importance in India’s foreign policy and economic development and her place at the heart of India’s Look East Policy.
Prime Minister Modi thanked Prime Minister Abe for his deep personal commitment to strengthening India – Japan strategic partnership, the extraordinary warmth of his hospitality, and the bold vision that characterized their discussions in Tokyo today.
The two Prime Ministers noted that India and Japan are Asia`s two largest and oldest democracies, with ancient cultural links and enduring goodwill between their people.
The two countries are joined together by convergent global interests, critical maritime inter-connection and growing international responsibilities.
They share an abiding commitment to peace and stability, international rule of law and open global trade regime.
Their economies have vast complementarities that create boundless opportunities for mutually beneficial economic partnership.
The two Prime Ministers observed that the relationship between the two countries draw strength and vitality from the exceptional consensus on the importance and potential of this relationship across the political spectrum, the business community and people in all walks of life in the two countries.
The two Prime Ministers welcomed the progress of individual cooperation programmes and projects enumerated in the Factsheet and directed the respective relevant authorities to further advance cooperation in a mutually satisfactory manner.
Political, Defence and Security Partnership
The two Prime Ministers decided to continue the practice of annual summits and to meet as often as possible on the margins of regional and multilateral meetings.
Recognizing the special quality of bilateral engagement between India and Japan imparted by multi-sectoral ministerial and Cabinet-level dialogues, in particular, those between their Foreign Ministers, Defence Ministers and Ministers dealing with finance, economy, trade and energy, the two Prime Ministers decided to intensify and invigorate such exchanges.
In this regard, they welcomed that the next rounds of Foreign Ministers Strategic Dialogue and Defence Ministers dialogue would be held in 2014.
They attached importance to the dialogue between their National Security Advisors, launched earlier this year soon after the creation of the National Security Secretariat in Japan, as a key instrument of building deeper mutual understanding and cooperation across the full range of security issues.
They underlined the importance of the 2 plus 2 dialogue, involving Foreign and Defence Secretaries, for their growing strategic partnership, and decided to seek ways to intensify this dialogue.
The two Prime Ministers reaffirmed the importance of defence relations between India and Japan in their strategic partnership and decided to upgrade and strengthen them.
They welcomed the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation and Exchanges in the Field of Defence during the visit.
In this context, they attached importance to the regularization of bilateral maritime exercises as well as to Japan’s continued participation in India – US Malabar series of exercises.
They also welcomed the existing dialogue mechanism and joint exercises between Indian and Japanese Coast Guards.
Prime Minister Modi welcomed the recent developments in Japan`s policy on transfer of defence equipment and technology.
The two Prime Ministers expressed the hope that this would usher in a new era of cooperation in defence equipment and technology.
They recognized the enormous future potential for transfer and collaborative projects in defence equipment and technology between the two countries.
They welcomed progress made in discussions in the Joint Working Group on cooperation in US-2 amphibian aircraft and its technology, and directed their officials to accelerate their discussions.
They also directed their officials to launch working-level consultations between the two countries with a view to promoting defence equipment and technology cooperation.
The two Prime Ministers recognized their wide-ranging shared interests in security of maritime and cyber domains, and decided to work with each other and with like-minded partners to preserve the integrity and inviolability of these global commons.
They affirmed their shared commitment to maritime security, freedom of navigation and overflight, civil aviation safety, unimpeded lawful commerce, and peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with international law.
Global Partnership for Peace and Security in the Region and the World
The two Prime Ministers affirmed their shared belief that at a time of growing turmoil, tensions and transitions in the world, a closer and stronger strategic partnership between India and Japan is indispensable for a prosperous future for their two countries and for advancing peace, stability and prosperity in the world, in particular, in the inter-connected Asia, Pacific and Indian Ocean Regions.
Prime Minister Abe briefed Prime Minister Modi on Japan’s policy of “Proactive Contribution to Peace” and Japan’s Cabinet Decision on development of seamless security legislation.
Prime Minister Modi supported Japan’s initiative to contribute to peace and stability of the region and the world.
The two Prime Ministers decided, in particular, to draw on the strength of their two countries` shared values, convergent interests, and complementary skills and resources to build a strong partnership to promote economic and social development, capacity-building and infrastructure development in other interested countries and regions.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed their intention to engage with other countries in the region and beyond to address the region`s challenges, deepen regional cooperation and integration, strengthen regional economic and security forums and promote peaceful resolution of disputes.
They underscored the importance of closer consultation and coordination between India and Japan in regional forums, including the East Asia Summit processes and forums.
They expressed satisfaction with progress in official level trilateral dialogue among India, Japan and the United States and expressed the hope that this would lead to concrete and demonstrable projects to advance their shared interests and that of other partners.
They decided to explore holding this dialogue among their Foreign Ministers.
They will also explore the possibility of expanding, at an appropriate time, their consultations to other countries in the region.
The two Prime Ministers condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, irrespective of their perpetrators, origin and motivations.
They emphasised that the evolving character of terrorism called for stronger international partnership in combating terrorism, including through increased sharing of information and intelligence.
They shared concern over deteriorating security situation in various countries, and affirmed, in this regard, the importance of elimination of terrorist safe havens and infrastructure.
They also called for reinvigorating multilateral action on terrorism, including through the finalisation and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in the United Nations at the earliest.
The two Prime Ministers expressed concern over North Korea’s continued development of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, including its uranium enrichment activities.
They urged North Korea to take concrete actions towards denuclearization and other goals as well as to fully comply with its international obligations, including under all relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions and its commitments under the 2005 Six-Party Talks Joint Statement.
They also urged North Korea to address, at the earliest, the humanitarian concerns of the international community, including the abductions issue.
The two Prime Ministers stressed their shared interests, including with respect to energy security, in a stable and peaceful Middle East, West Asia and the Gulf regions.
They expressed their deep concern over continuing turmoil and instability in the region, from diverse sources of conflict, which has had tragic and devastating impact on countries and people in the region.
Ending the region`s conflicts, combating terrorism and resolving outstanding issues, they shared, was of paramount importance, not just for the people of the region, but also to the world.
They welcomed negotiations between P5+1 and Iran over the Iranian nuclear issue and urged all parties to show political will and seek common ground while accommodating differences.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed their shared determination, and called for sustained international commitment to promote Afghan-led economic development, political pluralism and capacity-building in security in Afghanistan beyond 2014 to help it become a united, independent, sovereign, stable and democratic nation free from terrorism, extremism and external interference.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed the urgent need for comprehensive reform of the UN Security Council, especially its expansion in both permanent and non-permanent categories, to make it more representative, legitimate, effective and responsive to the realities of the 21st century.
They called for concrete outcome in this direction by the 70th anniversary of the UN in 2015 and decided to enhance efforts bilaterally and under the G-4 to realize this.
In this regard, they decided to strengthen their bilateral cooperation and outreach with other member states.
They also highlighted the outcome of the third round of India-Japan consultations on UN issues held in Tokyo in July 2014.
Civil Nuclear Energy, Non-proliferation and Export Control
The two Prime Ministers affirmed the importance of civil nuclear cooperation between the two countries and welcomed the significant progress in negotiations on the Agreement for Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy.
They directed their officials to further accelerate the negotiations with a view to concluding the Agreement at an early date, and strengthen the two countries’ partnership in non-proliferation and nuclear safety.
Prime Minister Abe commended India’s efforts in the field of non-proliferation including the affirmation that goods and technologies transferred from Japan would not be used for delivery systems for WMD.
Prime Minister Modi appreciated the decision of the Government of Japan to remove six of India’s space and defence-related entities from Japan`s Foreign End User List.
They looked forward to enhanced trade and collaboration in high technology.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed their commitment to work together for India to become a full member in the four international export control regimes: Nuclear Suppliers Group, Missile Technology Control Regime, Wassenaar Arrangement and Australia Group, with the aim of strengthening the international non-proliferation efforts.
Partnership for Prosperity
Prime Minister Abe affirmed a broader and stronger Japanese partnership for Prime Minister Modi`s bold and ambitious vision for accelerating inclusive development in India, particularly by transforming the infrastructure and manufacturing sectors.
Prime Minister Modi expressed his deep appreciation for Japan’s continuous support for India’s economic development and stated that no country has done more for modernizing India`s infrastructure than Japan.
The two Prime Ministers announced the India–Japan Investment Promotion Partnership under which:
a) The two Prime Ministers decided to set a target of doubling Japan’s foreign direct investment and the number of Japanese companies in India within five years as an objective to be jointly achieved.
They also decided to work closely towards further expanding bilateral trade relationship to the next stage.
b) Prime Minister Abe expressed his intention to realize 3.5 trillion yen of public and private investment and financing from Japan, including Overseas Development Assistance (ODA), to India in five years, to finance appropriate public and private projects of mutual interest including in the areas of next generation infrastructure, connectivity, transport systems, Smart Cities, rejuvenation of Ganga and other rivers, manufacturing, clean energy, skill development, water security, food processing and agro industry, agricultural cold chain, and rural development.
In this connection, Prime Minister Abe pledged ODA loan of 50 billion yen to India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited (IIFCL) for a public-private partnership infrastructure project in India.
c) The two Prime Ministers welcomed the public-private initiatives between the two countries to set up Electronics Industrial Parks in India.
They also shared the intention to develop “Japan Industrial Townships” and other industrial townships with investment incentives for companies would not be lower than under the prevailing policy framework such as Special Economic Zone (SEZ), National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ).
d) The two Prime Ministers directed their officials to work out an appropriate mix of financing mechanisms, including public-private partnership, and terms for utilization of public funds, taking into account the nature of the projects, developmental priorities, procurement policies, level of industrial and technological capacities and skills available locally.
They decided to explore ways to enhance Japanese and Indian participation in appropriate infrastructure projects in India.
e) Prime Minister Modi underlined his determination to further improve the business environment in India, including through tax, administrative and financial regulations, in order to boost investment.
The two Prime Ministers decided to further deepen bilateral economic and financial cooperation.
Prime Minister Abe welcomed the approval to establish Mizuho Bank’s Ahmedabad branch.
The two Prime Ministers placed special emphasis on Japan’s cooperation for enhanced connectivity and development in Northeast India and linking the region to other economic corridors in India and to Southeast Asia, which would catalyse economic development and increase prosperity in the region.
Prime Minister Modi briefed Prime Minister Abe on his initiative for Smart Cities and renewal of heritage cities, including the city of Varanasi.
Prime Minister Abe expressed Japan’s willingness to support this objective.
The two Prime Ministers welcomed the signing of the document to promote partnership city arrangement between the ancient cities of Varanasi and Kyoto.
Lauding Prime Minister Modi`s vision for development of world class infrastructure in India, including High Speed Railway system, Prime Minister Abe expressed his hope that India could introduce Shinkansen system for the Ahmedabad – Mumbai route.
Prime Minister Abe expressed his readiness to provide financial, technical and operational support to introduce Shinkansen system, for which Prime Minister Modi expressed his appreciation.
The two Prime Ministers look forward to the completion of the Joint Feasibility Study on High Speed Railway system on Ahmedabad – Mumbai route.
The two Prime Ministers welcomed the progress in the ongoing flagship projects of India-Japan economic partnership, such as the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC), Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC), Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC) and committed to accelerate their implementation.
Prime Minister Modi invited Japanese investments in the development of new smart cities and industrial parks along these corridors.
Appreciating Japan’s contribution to the development of urban mass rapid transport system in India, Prime Minister Modi sought Japan’s association with Ahmedabad Metro Project.
Prime Minister Abe expressed Japan’s willingness to support the project in a mutually beneficial manner.
Recognising the critical dependence of their economies on imported energy sources and their vulnerability to supply shocks, the two Prime Ministers affirmed their intention to further strengthen energy cooperation through the India–Japan Energy Dialogue.
They shared the intention that India and Japan would explore a higher level of strategic collaboration in the global oil and natural gas market, including through joint procurement of LNG, upstream development of oil and gas, and joint efforts to promote flexible LNG markets, including through relaxation of destination clauses.
The two Prime Ministers also welcomed enhanced cooperation on utilizing highly efficient and environmentally-friendly coal-fired power generation technology and progress on cooperation in Clean Coal Technology (CCT).
The two Prime Ministers welcomed substantial agreement on a commercial contract for manufacturing and supply of rare earth chlorides from India to Japan and affirmed their strong resolution for the finalization of commercial contract as well as the commencement of commercial production at the earliest.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed the commitment of both counties to actively engage in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) negotiations and to make RCEP a modern, comprehensive, high-quality and mutually beneficial economic partnership agreement.
They decided to cooperate further towards conclusion of RCEP negotiations.
Exploring Science, Inspiring Innovation, Developing Technology, Connecting People
The two Prime Ministers noted with satisfaction the recent productive Ministerial discussions in the fields of education, culture, sports, and science & technology, and recognized that the two Governments can truly harness the full potential of their relationship by seizing the vast opportunities for collaborating in science & technology, innovation, education, skill development, health, and information and communications technology to create new opportunities for their talented people, transform lives and address global challenges.
The two Prime Ministers decided to spur cooperation, in particular, in the cutting-edge fields such as life sciences including stem cell research, material science, cognitive science, applied mathematics, computing and information science, ocean technology and ocean observations, clean and renewable energy, water technology, climate change science and outer space.
They recognized the importance to launch joint laboratories in India and Japan.
They welcomed the growing collaboration between their research agencies and laboratories, and attached priority to expanding research exchanges, in particular, between their young scientists and students.
The two Prime Ministers acknowledged that the richness of the relationship between the two countries came from the long-standing wealth of goodwill and warmth between their people, and expressed their determination to further enhance people to people contacts and promote mutual understanding.
In this connection, they welcomed growing cooperation in tourism, youth exchanges, educational collaboration, and cultural exchanges including the cultural activities which will be held under the Festival of India in Japan.
Prime Minister Abe expressed his appreciation for Prime Minister Modi’s Digital India initiative.
The two Prime Ministers affirmed the importance of collaboration in the field of information and communications technology (ICT) through ICT Comprehensive Cooperation Framework.
Prime Minister Abe invited India to participate in the ‘Sport for Tomorrow’ programme.
Prime Minister Modi welcomed this proposal.
The two Prime Ministers expressed satisfaction at the growing educational and research partnership, including in humanities and social sciences – from the revival of Nalanda University, the ancient seat of learning, to addressing tomorrow`s challenges through the establishment of Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), and the Indian Institute of Informational Technology, Design and Manufacturing in Jabalpur (IIITDM-J), cutting-edge institutions of the 21st century.
They decided to make efforts to substantially increase the number of exchange students between India and Japan as well as to enhance Japanese language education in India.
The two Prime Ministers welcomed the launch of cooperation in the field of healthcare.
They appreciated the growing cooperation in the field of women empowerment.
Prime Minister Abe briefed Prime Minister Modi on his efforts to create a ‘society in which all women shine’.
Sharing the view of Prime Minister Abe, Prime Minister Modi stressed the need to recognise the power of women and their important role in nation-building and the development journey of a country.
Leading for the future
Conscious that from time immemorial whenever Indians and Japanese have come together, they have struck a deep chord in each other; recognizing the importance of their countries’ success; grateful to previous leaders for their invaluable contribution in building this relationship; aware of their enormous responsibility to lead at a moment of great opportunities and challenges, the two Prime Ministers decided to create a relationship that will shape the course of their countries and the character of this region and the world in this century.
Prime Minister Modi expressed his appreciation for the warm welcome and gracious hospitality of Prime Minister Abe and the Government and people of Japan.
Prime Minister Abe accepted Prime Minister Modi`s invitation to visit India for the next Annual Summit in 2015.
