Visiting US Secretaries convey that President Obama attaches great priority to relations with India
PM: There is broad convergence of views and interests between India and U.S.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi today.
In an hour-long meeting, the two visiting Secretaries briefed Prime Minister on the India-U.S. Strategic Dialogue; conveyed that President Obama attached great priority to relations with India, both for bilateral cooperation and global partnership, and looks forward to a productive and fruitful Summit in September in Washington to set an ambitious new agenda to chart a new course in the relationship.
Prime Minister said that there was broad convergence of views and interests between the two countries.
He outlined his vision for India and for the partnership between the world`s two largest democracies in addressing global challenges, promoting peace and stability in the world and supporting India`s own economic transformation.
Prime Minister highlighted the opportunities for partnership in trade, investment, clean energy, innovation, education, skill development, agro-processing, youth empowerment, among others.
Prime Minister emphasized the need for developed countries to understand the challenges of poverty in developing countries and their governments` responsibilities in addressing them, when discussions take place in international forums.
Prime Minister discussed the regional situation, including India`s engagement in Asia Pacific region; commitment to bring South Asia together in a united effort to promote regional economic development; India`s commitment to continue its support to Afghanistan; and, the need to confront terrorism on the principles of “zero tolerance” for terrorism and eschewing a selective approach to terrorism.
Prime Minister thanked Secretary Kerry and Secretary Pritzker for visiting India, although it was the U.S. turn to host the Strategic Dialogue; conveyed his appreciation for President Obama`s thoughtful and detailed letter; and, asked both sides to prepare for concrete outcomes during the Summit to take the relationship to an entirely new level, on the basis of vision, strategy and action plan.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Principal Secretary Nripendra Misra, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, and Foreign Secretary Sujatha Singh and other officials were present at the meeting.
