The Prime Minister of Denmark, H.E. Mr Lars Løkke Rasmussen, is visiting India on 18-19 January, 2019 for “Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit-2019” where Denmark is participating as a Partner Country.
Prime Minister Rasmussen is accompanied by a business delegation including CEOs of major Danish companies.
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Rasmussen held bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit in Gandhinagar on 18 January 2019.
The two Prime Ministers had earlier met during the first India- Nordic summit in Stockholm in April 2018.
In the meeting, the two leaders deliberated upon various areas of bilateral cooperation and also exchanged views on multilateral issues of mutual interest.
They underscored the huge potential for expanding bilateral trade and investments between the two countries.
Denmark is a global leader in several niche technologies which are of relevance to India.
Mentioning that Denmark has skills, India has scale and world has the need for new technologies, PM Modi encouraged India and Denmark to establish a research platform where solutions could be found to global issues of concern such as food security, water management, climate change and sustainable development.
During the meeting, two MOUs were exchanged- MoU on Maritime Issues between the Ministry of Shipping of India and the Ministry of Industry, Business and Financial Affairs of Denmark and MoU between Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited and the Danish Embassy in New Delhi to establish an Urban Living Lab in Panaji, Goa.
Around 130 Danish companies have invested in India in areas such as shipping, renewable energy, environment, agriculture and food processing and are keen to expand their engagements in other sectors like smart urban development and waste-to-energy.
Several major Danish companies are also present in Gujarat in shipping and renewable energy sectors.
During the visit, Prime Minister Rasmussen will inaugurate the Danish Cultural Institute and the new building of Danish Embassy in New Delhi on 19 January 2019.
He will also visit Agra.
